The Light Redeems Us - John 1:1
============

* The pastor likes lights
* christmas lights: "It is an expression of total appreciation of that great theological incarnation of
  the truth"

The motif of light - Lights in the NT
---

"the su/on is the best disinfectant"

Background
---

* dark day
  * for jews - because of roman take over
  * philosophically
  * "Word"
* John - from ephesus, 
* wrote in 80ad
* How do you help the greek understand Christianity?
* Book of John is for the Greeks (not the Jews)

### What was the deep longing of that day?

John 1:1

"Word" - (logos): "word" or "reason"

Gen 1:3

#### Philosopher's point of view:

* the impersonal abstract principle of reason and order in the universe
* the mind of God gives order to the universe
* 2 words: seen and unseen where seen is a bad prototype of the unseen (a
  figment of our imagination).
* Unseen has perfect order
* Philosophers were paid to come in and wax eloquently about the "Logos"...and
  it accomplished nothing.
* "was the word" - "was" is imperfect (I am verb) ("In the beginning existed the
  word")
* "pros ton theon" - means more than the "Word" has existed with God... it
  gives the picture of two personal beings facing one another and engaging in
  the intelligent discourse.
* I.E: The mind of God has come into this world and has come in the form of
  Jesus Christ himself.

Plato & Aristotle
---

* Had huge influence on the 1st Century Church:
* Waxed eloquently about "light" and the "word" but what they had to say never
  came out right.
* A profound text - __DON'T BECOME COMPLACENT!!!!!__


V2-3
--

* God has always existed
* To the Jew "Word" as divine power, to the Greek "Word" was illumination
  (reasoning)
* Genealogies of Jesus. Matthew goes to Abraham, Luke goes to ...

v5
---

* "The darkness did not comprehend/overcome it"
* "overcome" - "katalambano" - to arrest to capture to overtake or to overcome.
* Mark 9:18 - "seizes" 
* Parable of the sowers - the seed that fell on the thorns (Satan seizing our
  desire and knowledge and presence in the Word which is the scriptures).
* John 15:22 - we have absolutely no excuse for not being in His Word. 
* Man's problem with accepting Christ as their savior is not an intellectual
  problem but a moral problem
* Joseph is a type of Christ (Genesis 37 - 50)

v6 - John the Baptist (there came a man sent from God)
--

* He was a Nazarite, a really good nazarite.
* He came a witness to come and tell the truth, nothing but the truth and only
  that which he knows.
* John is saying: "You have been looking for enlightenment and missing it. Here
  you have it! The truth in front of you! It is Jesus the Christ!"
* What does the Bible say about Satan: He hides himself as an angel of light!
* We have something deep within us calling out to find the truth - the Saviour
  of mankind!

v12 
---

* Three key verbs: 
  * "believe" :
  * "receive" : 
  * "become"  :
* The purpose of Christ's coming was to create in man a regenerated heart.


Application
---

4 ways to pray as we enter the Christmas season

1. Begin praying for our generation of Christians - that we would become
   literate Christians (as we have become illiterate in God's Word)

2. That Mountain View might make a dent in the culture of our West Cobb - that
   we might become more involved with the community.

3. Pray that your family will make a difference for Christ 

4. Pray that you might make a difference (Col 4:5-6)
  * speak wisely
  * speak with grace
  * know how your should respond
