% Dr. Byron Morgan
% Living Life Right side up - _Luke 6_


# Intro

What does Jesus have to say about how we're living today in 2018?

If we're doing what Jesus calld us to do we would be turning this world on its
head. 

Often we don't believe in what Jesus says and therefore we dont attact the
world as we ought to be!

Byron can fix refridges! And the word gets out he does a great job!

Jesus is the author of life! And he can show you how to live life to the
fullest but you must listen to what he has to say.

# Luke 6:20

## Context

Jesus has come down from a high place and into a valley. 

Not the Sermon on the mount

The sermons are different

Jesus has already appointed his disciples

On of the first things Jesus does here is teach on money matters.

## Luke 6:20

This passage says "Blessed are the poor" not "poor in spirit". Here it is about
money.

Matthew 5 is talking about a repentent heart.

Who are the poor?

The audience is made of poor villagers and laymen.

These are people who are wondering "How do I live with limited resources".

Remember _Isaiah 55:8-9_ and that this escpecially that this applies to this
context

Today we have a cultural Christianity not a biblical Christianity

Ages ago people took a vow of poverty. No where in scripture does it say you
must be poor to be spiritual.

__Here Jesus is saying less is more!__

To be great today you must have a large portfolio! However, in God's kingdom!
Less is more; we march to the beat of a different drum!

How is this true?

# Less is not more when 

## it is caused by idleness

_Proverbs 14:23_

If all you do is sit on the XBOX and eat snacks and are poor this doesn't mean
you are spiritual!!!

_2 Thessalonians 3:6_

Paul commands that we should work!

## Because of laziness 

_Proverbs 6:6-11_

Take an example from the ant! Prepare for life's events! Do not be lazy!

## Because of Recklessness 

_Proverbs 21:5_

"hasty"
: uwts
: to be pressed, to hurry, to be hasty
: refers to someone who doesn't budget but does impulsive spending

Shopping and spending can be an addiction!!! Because there is some how there is
a deep void within them and they feel they can fill this void by the next great
thing. We forget that Christ can fill this void!

## Because of worthless pursuits

_Proverbs 28:19_

Be wise of what you do with your life. This describes someone who chases
fantasies.

# Less _IS_ more when

## You refuse to compromise

_Proverbs 28:6_

Because of your allegance to God you refuse to drop your morals and integrity.

You always hold true to your integrity.

_Luke 3:10 - 12_

Do not take advantage of people! Even if it means you don't look very good on
the outside at least your insides are rotting.

_Proverbs 16:8_

God looks with favor on pure, not full, hands

## When coupled with contentment

_Ecclesiastes 5:10_

The preacher here is saying that if you're so in love with money that you can't
sleep at night because you are not content then this passage is for you.

This whole point of being poor is learning to live within your means!

Who you are is not based on what you have!

(Nor the degrees you have)

_Proverbs 14:30_

## When you are generous

_2 Corinthians 8:1_

Context: that the Macedonian church gave a huge gift to Paul. They gave
liberally out of their poverty

One who is happy is the one who gives.

It is more blessed to give than to receive.

_Luke 6:24_

This is describing the one who finds their comfort in what they own and what
they do! 

"comfort"
: "Parakaleo" 
: To encourage, to comfort

This is the final principle of kingdom living.

# Application

1. Find your consolation in God not money. Money 
1. Money makes a lousy God
1. Live for the mansions to come!

_1 Timothy 6:6-10,17_

Work for the day of the resurrection of the dead!
