% Blessing of rejection - _Luke 6:22-23_
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Introduction

Persecution is inevidable. 
We are no longer a Christian friendly nation.

Living in a postmodern world.

Relativism is the current way of thinking.
Truth is constructed not discovered - in otherwords we make it up as we go.
Our psychological perception is warped.

What does this have to do with persecution.

"I am the way, the truth and the life". From the greek Jesus is saying (I am
the only way, I am the only truth). However, this is a toxic statement.

How do we learn to live rightside up during persecution?

# How to face persecution

## Change your perspective - v22

"blessed"
: "Makarios" means happy!

"blessed"
: "eulogetos"
: means to eulogize

"when men hate you"

We will be persecuted

_Matthew 5:10_
_John 15:20_
_2 Timothy 3:1_
_2 Thessalonians 3:4_

Here it states that we are to be happy during persecution.

Some think: "If I am doing what is right before the Lord then life should be
great right?"

So what about: _Proverbs 16:7_? Remember Proverbs are rules of thumbs. This
passage doesn't supercede what Jesus says.

There will be times where people directly or indirectly try to intimidate you
about your faith.

The first step is: expect it.

## Count the cost - v22

Sometimes we bring critizism upon our selves and falsely call it persecution. 

_1 Peter 4:14-16_. Why did Peter say "because the Spirit of glor and of God
rests on you"? Because we are being persecuted due to the Holy Spirit living
within us.

Some people just aren't likeable, or lazy! This isn't persecution.

Personal or private opinions that are tried to be pushed off onto the
unbeliever and recieved with rejection that isn't persecution.

"hate"
: miseo

"ostracized"
: aphorizo
: to limit exclude set off by boundary
: rejection

"cast insults"
: oneidizo
: "to cast into the teeth"

"scorn your (plural) name as evil"
: drive out
: expel

The psychology is that "something is wrong with you if you don't want to play
with us"!

# Beward of the comprimise - v26

You cannot have everyone speak well of you. 

You can't have everyone like us.

We want people to like us. If you are trying to have everyone like you then
Jesus says "woe" to you

"woe"
: I pitty you if this is true of you

If we are doing this - becareful of the internet - then Christ says "THAT, IS,
NOT, GOOD!"

To have everyone like you means you comprimise on some area of the Christian
life. This could come in the small form of simply laughing at a crude joke.

    Self-esteem

    Signifigant others x percieved reject = anger and depression 
    (depression = anger turned inward)

If this is is true then we are trying to have people like us.

    God Esteem

    God's view of me + faith = joy + peace + confidence

This means my self-esteem is not tied up in how people think of me.

# Responses To Persecution

## Cowardly

This is the most absurd of all

Make sure know one finds you out.  This is a coward's way of doing it and
simply ignores the calling of being ambassadors of Christ.

_2 Corinthians 5:12-20_

We are called to a ministry of reconciliation.

## Just Preach Through Your Life

This is vital! HOWEVER! This cannot be the only thing!

3 Greek principles of how to communicate to someone

1. Ethos - ethics
1. Pathos - empathy (people don't care how much you know, until they know how
   much you care)
1. Logos - share (logic, reasoning, rationale).

## Only tell them the nice things

Only say the positive things about Christianity. HOWEVER, You must preach the
whole council of God!

_Jeremiah 5:11-13_
_Jeremiah 6:13-14_
_Galatians 1:10_

## Consider the consolation - v23

Leap for joy! Because this is an indication you're doing the right thing

# Benefits of persecution

1. Confirms your relationship with God. _1 Peter 4:16_
1. Causes reliance on God and self-examination
1. Cultivates Godliness
1. Confers a reward

These have present and future implications.

_2 Timothy 4:18_
