% Judging Others - _Luke 6:21_
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Introduction

Story of Steve Saint's wife (Ecaudor) and the grandson who's grandfather was
killed by an Indian who then became his "adopted Grandfather".

The gift of the Christians is the ability to forgive deeply and extend grace
beyond the fullest extent

Can we judge others? 

Context: umbrella of loving your enemy! Judgement succeeds loving

# How To Treat your enemies

_Luke 6:31_ 

In otherwords - don't treat them the way they are treating you.

The golden rule is singularly and soley Biblical and Christian. _It is not a
secular concept_ Everytime it appears in some other text it is put in the
negative form ("Don't treat others the way you don't want to be treated"). The
negative form is from a selfish motive.  However, in the Bible, it is used in
the positive form which is from a selfless attitude.

You do what is right in every circumstance regardless of how it impacts you!

_Luke 6:35_ 

The results of loving your enemies - you will be a picture of the most High to
others! When you act this way you are distinctly different than the world.

The way we glorify Christ is by becoming like them.

# How do we view our enemies?

_Luke 6:35-36_

Be merciful

"merciful"
: you look upon them in a different way, which is contrary to the natural way
of percieving them


How a state trooper who never mistreated a prisoner for 15 years.

1. I always see them as a man
1. "A soft answer turns away anger"

"Keep on being merciful as your heavenly Father keeps on being merciful to you"

"Pardoning you will be pardoned"

2 questions: 

1. Is there a right way to judge? If so when?
1. When is it wrong for us to judge?

## The right way to judge

The Bible is replete with commandments to judge (be discerning)

_3 John 1:9_

### Meanings of Judge

base word

"krino"
: to seperate or divide
: example, people who are inspecting fruit to buy

"ana"
: up, against, back

"anakrino"
: to examine, investigate or question
: _1 Corinthians 2:14_

"dia"
: through

"diakrino"
: to judge through or discriminate
: _1 Corinthians 11:31_

We as believers are called to descern what is right and wrong. When we "pass
judgement" we are declaring what is right and wrong.

### Examples of Judging

_Luke 7:43_

"You have [krino] correctly"

## The wrong way to Judge

### Do not judge preferences or opinions.

_Romans 14:1_

We do not have the right to judge the Lord's servants regarding his opinions.

Paul is speaking to weak and strong believer about eating meat offered to
idols.

There were those judging others about eating meat offered to idols.

What line is drawn between opinions and Laws?

### Do not judge another's motivations

_1 Corinthians 4:2-4_

The believers at Corinth were trying to disqualify Paul's motive.

Only God can judge another's motive.

### We cannot pass judgement based on another's conviction

_1 Corinthians 4:2-4_

How is this different from moral relativism?

### We cannot judge hypocriticaly

_Luke 6:42_

The word 

"hypocrite"
: "hupokritos"
: to speak from under a mask, to judge from under a mask

_2 Samuel 11_

Once we've become a Christian we have 

_Luke 6:37_

"katadikazo"
: to pass a sentence (of condemnation) on someone
