# Concering Anxiety

Phil 4:4-9

## Intro / Context

Most mature new testament believers were found in Philipi

There's possibly some anger between some members. 

_Why do you tell them to stand firm in the context of conflict?_

Because it is the aim of Satan to cause division. When things get tight it is so
easy to give in to the flesh and divide.


4 Dominant Commands that Paul Gives answering the question (How do I face
anxiety? Or Better what is the recipe for Joy that enables us to conquer
anxiety?)

## Rejoice In The Lord! (v4)

Rejoice - Find your joy in Him at all times! 

This is a prison epistle. This is written from a dungeon in Rome. The black
filth was nothing compared to the hope and joy He had from His relationship in
Christ.

Example from Tony Evans: Hotel running on gas generator not from the electric
grid.

This is foundational attitude of dealing with anxiety.

##  R With Others (v5)

Having a heart of grace.

When you don't have to carry everyone's burden it's a freeing matter.
 
## Resting in the Lord (v6-7)

Literally: "Stop being anxious!". 

What naws at us are things we can't control.

"anxiety": "merimnao" - to be pulled into two different directions; pulled
apart. A divided soul. It's the gap between that which we know what to be true
and reality.

_How do we do this?_

Make your requests made known to God.

We often stress and worry because of a sense of inadequacy. It comes because a
person assumes an obligation that is to big for Him to carry.

Ps. 37:3-5 

* Trust
* Commit
* Delite

"Cast your cares on Him" - the picture is that of a soldier caring a large bag,
and he gives it over to God.

When you have the attitude of thanksgiving: "the peace of God that surpasses all
understanding will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus".

"Peace is not a hallowed feeling that comes over us"

##  Reflecting Upon His Promises (v8-9)

40% of things that don't happen

30% about past things

12% about critisism from others

10% health problems.

8% real problems -> The only thing that is worth worrying over.

"Think": to dwell, carefully consider, 

Proverbs 23:7a -> Whatever you put into your mind so you will be.

You must remind yourself of the promises of God, and train your mind to lead
your heart.

## Application

1. Know Christ personally. Christ has done everything for us.
2. Reliquish your burden to the Lord`
