% What about peace on Earth?
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

Many fallacies of His birth:

* not in December, 
* more likely in the spring 

Bishop of rome in 4th century declared this in an arbitrary way.  This month
was a time feasts and celebrating. It seemed that he chose this month as a way
of making the celebrations more Holy.

Sat'urnalia who was the god of agrigulture and December was the month of
celebrating. 

Evergreen was used as decoration during this time.

A popular text 

> Glory to God in the highest and on earth, peace, good will toward men.
> _Luke 2:14_

Many people are in the grip of anger and it squeezes out any capacity for love,
mercy or grace. 

It is during this season that emotions are coming out and resentments are being
made. Fights are made and people get hurt! So where's the peace?

However we are made to believe that there is peace on earth by the coorprate
world.

There are many translations of this passage. What's the problem with these?

# The grammatical question

The greek gives clearity

Sigma 
: the "s" in greek

"pleasing"
: the main acting verb

"eudokias" 
: nominative case 
: "peace and good will to men"
: will identify what man gets.
: from newer manuscripts

"eudokia"
: genative case
: "upon earth peace in men who are well-pleasing [to God]"
: qualifies something
: from older manuscripts

So which is it? Well we refer to the oldest: "eudokia" (see NIV translation as
prefered).

# The theological question

It is not saying that God's peace has to be earned.

This is saying that peace is on those who have God's unconditional favor (_that
is they are saved?_)

When you're at a sporting event your child has your favor. This is what this
passage is saying.

Other passages (only one other phrase): _Matthew 3:17_ the transcendence of the
dove from heaven. 

> This is my beloved Son with whom I am pleased once and for all.

God's peace is reserved for his children.

## Types of peace

### Judicial peace

_Romans 5:1_ we have peace with God! This is a peace that makes friends out of
former enemies! The barrier between me and God has been removed. Since we have
been brought near.

Illustration of judge, taking off his judge's robe, putting on his coat and
paying the speeding fine.

In the practical sense this means that my identity that is under the pile of
shame and guilt has been removed.

_Romans 8:1_ correlated to _Romans 8:35-37_

## Experiencial Peace

_Philipians 4:6-7_

# Application

* Do not allow my well being to be found in people
* Resist the temptation to live up to other people's expectations
* I will not hunger from affirmation or peace from anything (or anyone) else
  except for Christ's peace.
