---
title: Ps. 32 - Pain in the Spiritual Realm
author: Bob Josey
---

# Intro

## Causes of Spiritual pain

1. Living in sin and unconfessed sin
2. Past committed sins that are unconfessed

How do we find relief from spiritual pain?

## Context

Maskil - a song that is contemplated. 

This song has nothing to do with salvation.

Believers in the NT do not experience God's wrath or punishment, but his
discipline - which is done to change our behavior.

# Confession of Sin Brings

* Forgiveness
* Relief
* Joy

_Ps 32:1-2_
: David was in a crisis mode at this particular time in his life. He has refused
to confess it. This sin brought physical pain, guilty feelings, and torment.
: We have no idea what this sin is (possibly the sin with Bethsheba).

2 reasons for the blessings

1. Removal of sin. The sin is lifted away. Who's sin is covered. Hidden, concealed (attoned?)
2. The removal of inquity (de-imputation).


Confession must be:
  * genuine - not going through motions.
  * Honest

"confess"
: to agree with.

# Nonconfession of Sin Brings

* Chastaining or discipline
* Physical pain (sometimes)
* Guilt (different depths therein)

_Ps 32:3-4_
: The silent confession is not
: God does allow unconfessed sin to go for a short time; but not a long time.

"Selah"
: Songs of the Jews were sung; this word indicated a pause, and a reflection on
the words just sung.

> "Guilt is to the conscience as pain is to the body"
> - Warren Wiersbe

Is your conscience bothering you all the time? Is that record player going on
over and over? 

_How does this relate to Matthew 18 regarding to unforgiveness?_

> God gave David time to confess his sins. When you wait to long to confess your
> sins then eventually God will allow your heart to grow cold and then you no
> longer are convicted. It is at this point God brings discipline.

_Not sure about this_.

The 5 problems in David's life due to Absolom was due to David's unconfessed
sin.

_But David's sin was confessed before all of these things. Does God's discipline
still occur after confession has occured?_
