% Attitude meets the Holidays
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Introduction

Holidays can be a very lonely time. 

Set of unique pressures and stresses

* family issues are resurfaced 
* expectations that family members have of you
* money issue

This can be the most lonely time of the year for people.

Think about your attitude this season. 

our attitude shouldn't be:

let's just get back to the routine (forget the holiday season)

_Philipians 4:4_

How should we think during the holidays?

What are the things that cause people to lose their joy, peace, and fruit of
the Holy Spirit?

1. Hurt when people don't come to our activities. We use passive aggression
1. When people don't meet our expectations
1. Our disappointment makes us feel unloved or not liked. (We feel rejected)
1. We feel lonely and thus rejected.

## Context 

Paul is writing from a prison

Theme of book is joy.

In the midst of rejection, termoil and beating he talks about having joy.

_Philippians 4:4-7_

How can I have joy and peace in this season?

# Be discriminating thinkers

## Come to know Christ

_Philippians 4:8_

Be tuned into Christ!

"if"
: first class condition
: or "since"

_Romans 10:9_ 

A believer cannot flip a switch and suddenly change the way he thinks.

Once we are in Christ how do we recalibrate our thinking?

## Fix your mind  

Dwell
: "lagizomai
: to count reflect, reckon, calculate.
: Present tense command
: continue to calculate and think about 

Don't be a reactionary thinker! Be a reflectionary thinker! 

John R. Stott quote on how sin nature has an easy hold on us when our feelings
control us.

We are to put our thiking onto the things listed here. 

This here is what the Bible describes as meditation! 

You are "pulling the trigger over and over and over again on the things listed
in verse 7". You make your thoughts all filled.

_Ephesians 6_
_2 Corinthians 10:5_

What is described here in _Philipians 4:8_ is taking your thoughts captive!

What is meditation? The meaning is connected to barn-yard animals (a cow). It's
how a cow keeps bringing back God's truth to his mind and chewing on it.

_Psalm 1:2_

What are we to think about?

# Thinkg about and Thank God

## Whatever is true

_Philipians 4:8a_

This is talking about God's whole truth.

People in society claim to have the truth and they may have it in part but
never in whole!

Jesus used the Word of God to combat Satan!

When Jesus calmed the storm did the disciples have the truth? Yes, but not the
whole truth. They didn't know Jesus' ministry wasn't going to end there and
then. They couldn't see past the trees and view the forest.

God assumes full responsibility to a life wholey yielded to Him.

## Whatever is honorable

honorable
: This word is never used about a thing or object.
: Only used to speak of a person or people

_Philippians 3:17_

Mimmick the people who are Godly in your life!

_Philippians 2:25-27_ Paul is saying he loved this guy and if he died he would
have cried his eyes out!

To often during this season some one will hurt us and we'll spend all our time
thinking about what and why it happened.

Often we dwell on the one hurtful thing than the 6000 good things

## Whatever is right

THANK GOD FOR WHEN RIGHT WINS OUT!

When something that could have gone wrong didn't or when justice was done!
Thank God for being in control of this.

_Proverbs 15:25_ 

Rejoice when right wins out.

When it seems like the good guy is always losing
_Isaiah 61:8_

## Whatever is pure


haggios
: used for holy/righteous

pure
: hagnos
: cognative cooralative concept to haggios
: pure Godliness or Christ likeness

Instead of thinking about resentment ask "How can I respond in a way that the
Lord would be pleased with my response?"

When you dwell on that which is good - forgiving the other person.

## Whatever is lovely 

Beautiful realities

lovely
: only used here in the NT. We find the meaning by looking at the Septuigant. Used to describe Esther
: something that gives great joy (salvation and our inheritance)

## Whatever is of good report 

good
: euphemos
: a good reputation or report

What matters is not what people think of us but what God thinks of us!

# Application

Corey Tenboom story - they decided to thank God for everything!

Remember God has the whole truth!
