% Seeing My Grother For the Benefit of Others
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Introduction

Walking into a hotel with fruit basket, you bite into one and discover that
it's plastic. What do you do with it?

Often our leaders give us a perception of authentic Christianity, but how do we
know that it's real? Are they being authentic?

In today's society we wonder where are our security doors are, often appearing
dramatic.

The Bible has many warnings about the teachers we follow. Often people are
getting fed cotton candy, and breathing anthrax.

Protect your mind and your soul! Avoid places that would contaminate your mind
and heart. Understand the importance of growing spiritually. You growth isn't
just for your benefit but also for the benefit of others. We shouldn't go for
our own tastes but to grow and be fed.


_Luke 6:39-45_

How am I to grow in such a way that benefits others?

# Choose your teachers wisely

_Luke 6:39_. 

"Parable"

How do we know he's talking about teachers? (see v40).

"Blindness" in the OT and NT are often used as imagery of blindness. There is a
danger in following wrong teachers.

A false teacher is like a pacifier. You can suck all day long on it and gain no
nutritional value.

3 types of people 

1. The "super-spiritual". I don't like organized religion, I can worship God on
   a hillside, I don't need a teacher

1. The "maverick". I am autonomous, and don't bother me. You do what you like
   and I'll do what I like, no one is smart enough to teach me.  _1 Corinthians
   1:11_. I just follow the celebrity. They are the "unteachable untouchables".
   I speak to Christ directly, I don't need anyone!

1. The "home Churches". 2 or three families form the church. I am not going to
   trust others to be taught Christ but myself or a few others. _Ephesians
   4:11-12_ here we are clearly instructed that we were given specific people
   to teach! _2 Timothy 2:14_

Be careful about the imbalanced teachers! _2 Peter 3:1_

"But they love Jesus!" may be your argument. This is like a terrible brain
surgeon who has good bedside manners.

A false teacher is not going to come along and say "hail Satan!". 80% of the
teaching he gives is correct, however the 20% lethal!

# See Yourself as a teacher

_Luke 6:40_

If there was a sideline reporter that stood outside the church after your
leaving and ask "How does your faith affect your impact on life".

You ability to teach is measured by the degree to which you are growing.

You've gone from being a learner to beign a teacher can you prove this? Yes see
_Hebrews 5:11-12_

"dull"
: nothros
: slow, sluggish, lazy

There is no passion for the truth.

"ought"
: dei - it's a good idea
: "opheilo" - to owe (you ought to pay your taxes)

_Romans 15:14_

"admonish"
: nuthiteo
: to put into one's mind

One of the problems parent's have is they want to take their kids to a church
with OK teaching but a great youth program. This is like putting on the oxygen
mask on your child first and then yourself.

If you aren't taking in spiritual truth then your kids aren't going to get it.

# Anticipate the impact of your choices.

_Luke 6:40_

"like"
: hos
: used with numbers, meaning somewhat

"become"
: eimi
: come into being

_1 Thessalonians 1:5_

We mimic the leaders around us.

# Have spiritual integrity

"Integrity is what you are when no one is looking". Being consistent! One
faced.

For every Christian there is a gap between what we know and what we do.

God's mercy gap.

There is for some believers. There is a gap between what we know and what we obey.

_Luke 6:42_

## Live with a clear conscience.

A conscience can be stained 

Seared. _1 Timothy 4:2_

When you do this 

## Anticipate a more effective ministry

_Hebrews 10:24-25_

"stimulate"
: praxusmos
: to stir, promote, to irritate

This doesn't give you the right to become a spiritual tailor and measure
everyone's spirituality. You need accountability.

# Application

Where is the road block in your life?
