---
title: The Profit Of A Godly Mother
subtitle: 1 Samuel 1
author: Dr. Byron Morgan
date: Sun May 13 11:15:56 EDT 2018
---

# Intro

The goal of a mother is to raise Godly children.

Woman helped bring sin into the world. The way she reverses this is by raising
children that are Godly and Christlike.

No greater detail to a mother in the OT than Hannah.

("Hannah") - grace

Hannah is childless but through faith she became childfull.

What does a Godly mother look like?

You don't stop impacting children, whether you're a mother or a grand-mother.

# Context

This follows the book of judges chronologically. This was a time of confusion
and termoil and moral corruption. The nation is weak and worst of all.

Judges 21:25 - the state of the nation.

# A Godly Mother is Real

> _v6_  Her rival, however, would provoke her bitterly to irritate her.
> _v10_ She prayed to the Lord and wept bitterly

Unlike other "scriptures" no other text shows the flaws of the heros like the
Bible.

Her husband was a polygamist and his second wife had children. She would try and
stir up the emotions of Hannah to piss her off; make her made and upset.

Just because you're struggling doesn't mean you're not spiritual. A Godly mother
doesn't hide behind a mask. They own up to their flaws and do not try and hide
them. 

# Devoted To Her Husband

_v5_ - Hannah stayed with her husband year in and year out even as she never had
children and was mistreated by her husband's other wife. 

Your children will be watching you. They will pick up your flaws, your habits,
your virtues, your Christ-like attitudes. 

"Are you and mom getting a divorce? Because everyone in this neighborhood is
getting a divorce".

Your husband is not going to be a perfect man. 

## Context of Polygamy

God's plan has always been for one-man-woman and one-woman-man.

During this time in society polygomy was prominent. When the Word of God would
come to a society it took 2-3 generations to root out the sin of polygamy.
Though people may trust Christ it would take years to root that out.

## How do we know she trusts her husband? 

_v8_ - Is her husband not greater than 10 sons? 

1. She went with him year after yeart to worship with him.
1. Her Elkanah gave her a double portion which showed that he loved her; he
   wouldn't love her if she wasn't devoted to him.
1. Her reaction to his speach was that she went up to pray,


# A Godly Woman Has Vibrant Prayer Life

_v10_ - She prays to the Lord constantly. Her heart is faithful and trusting of
the Lord. 

If you were without children in this time you were a woman of shame. People
believed that she may have sinned and God is punishing her.

With tears in our eyes prayers come from the heart.

> When God wants to do an impossible task he takes a person and crushes him.

Susanna Wesley was broken - this is was what led her to produce 2 men who were
to become 2 of the finest men the Church as known.

_v11_ - "Lord of Hosts" or "Lord Almighty". "Hosts" - the armies of heaven. She
is appealing to His power and authority. She knows that she can't do anything;
and must rely on God.

Sheep dogs will carral and do their job, and then fall down before their master
and wait for another command. Their man place of stay is at  their master's
feet. A person of vibrant prayer is one who is always at their master's feet.

# A Godly Mother is Sacrifial For Her Children

_v24_ - She fulfilled her promise to the Lord, and was willing to let go of
their kids and give them over to God. 

Most mothers do not want to let their children go. They can be helicopters,
controlling and sometimes overbearing. A godly mother knows when to let go.

Mothers sacrifice in order to bring joy to their chilren.

Princess Alice  (daughter of queen victoria). One of her children caught
diptheria. She asked "why doesn't my mom kiss me anymore?" So Victoria came and
kissed her chilren all over and died with her chilren.

# A Godly Mother Has Deep Faith

_v17_ - Hannah believed that God would answer her request. 

_2:1_ - Her prayer speaks greatly of her faith in Christ.

# Application

* Remember your role as a mother is second to none. 
* Remember your relationship with God and your husband more to prepare your
    children and marriage.
* Remember you don't have to have a perfect home to produce Godly chilren.

Story of Susana Wesley.
