---
author: Chip Kirk
title: Peanut Butter Prayer
---

# Intro

__Why do we not pray more?__

_Is it just a conversation with God? Does God talk back?_

We cannot pray well unless we know our Bible's well.

Man who read through his bible 4 times a year for 40 years. Like a starving dog eating a steak.

It's not how much do you...
  ..."have to"
  but 
  ..."get to"

Bible reading programs are not bad, however...

* You must know your bible in order to pray well.

* You must obey your Bible in order to pray well. (John 14:15 - "If you love me
    you will keep my commandments")

If you obey you will be blessed, if you disobey you will be cursed. 

Even knowing this you will messup.

While there is grace, then you must obey


* Pray the Bible. (1 Thes 5:17 - "pray without ceasing").

How do we talk to God?

We struggle to concentrate, we don't know how to pray...

...and then we feel as though we are a second class Christian
...self loathing

Some people don't pray because they don't believe that prayer works.

Why should I pray when God does what He's going to do; He's sovereign.

What can my prayer possibly do? It aligns one's soul toward the will of God.

# The Peanut Butter Prayers

PB - "Pray the Bible"

Why?

You will always have something to pray about. 

1 John 5:14

When we pray the Bible we are praying God's words back to Him.

This is modelled in the psalms

## Example

_Eph 1:3_

> "Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord and God Jesus Christ"

> "Father, thank you that you are my Father. Help me to praise you more. Thank you
> for blessing me in Christ. Help me to know what those blessings are. Help me to
> see you as my Father. Heal the wounds in my heart by helping me to forgive my
> own Father. You've chosen me God before the foundation of the earth. How is this
> possible? Open my eyes to know this Lord. Thank you that you chose me."

> "In love He chose us for adoption as Son's in Christ Jeusus"

> "Lord I have no clue what this really means. Help me to understand this in my
> heart...".

Afraid of praying in front of people?

Memorize Eph 1:17-23 and pray it.

By using the PB prayers you won't get stuck in the prayer ruts.
Praying the scriptures is for the weak which gives us strength.
