----
title: What we Learn From Job - _Job 42:1-6_
author: Dr. Byron Morgan
----

# Intro

Job had incomplete knowledge which led to the distorted view of God.

God's complete council is necessary for a full Christian life.

There is no safe place in war.

_Job 1_: we get the picture of the spiritual war that is going on.

Often we forget the spiritual and only see the physical around us. 

God lifts us to a more global perspective in the story of Job. He gives us a
background view and shows us that when we're in the midst of confusion we must
remember that God sees us. _1 Cor 10:1-5_

We are not here to enjoy ourselves. We are in a battlefield! We are part of an
army! 

Faith is believing what you cannot see!

Matthew 26:39

_Job 42:3_

_Job 40_ 

This book shows who Job really was - a self deceived man. He thought he had all
the energy to face the trials of his life. (_Jeremiah 17:9_). We must come to a
point where we say: I must get more of God! I am unable to do this on my own.

_Job 23:10_ - Job understood that God was testing him; however there was a hint
of suspicion that his (wrong) friends could be right.

When we stray from God and He shows up then keeps coming, and we think "God!
Enough already! I get the point!" But we need it. We need His discipline, or
His rebuke. 

"Why am I not receiving your blessing?" - check your heart. Let God be God!

When we are called upon to suffer we have a great privilege. Because God is
saying "I trust you enough to succeed through this". What happens when we come
through? We make Satan a liar and we bring ourselves into a light that is like
non-other (a life that can only be explained by God).

4 rules for dying

* don't complain
* keep the home bright
* count the blessings
* turn the dying to gain

This is what true faith does!

_Proverbs 3:5-6_
