# Knowing Jesus

Philippians 3:10


## Intro

What does it mean to know Christ?

* Knowing Christ is not soley based on emotion.
* Knowing Christ is not having a large knowledge of his scripture.
* Knowing Christ is not just serving him.
* Knowing Christ is not just a combination of the above


Many Christians do not understand what it means to know Christ. _This is not to
be a flaunt_.

Christianity is not an experience.

## Context

1. Remember Paul wrote this while in prison.
1. There is joy in serving others.
1. There is joy in knowing Christ.
1. Thre is joy in the adequacy of Christ.

### v10 

Literal Greek: "Though, indeed, therefore, at least, even"

__"know"__: "tou gnonai" - expresses purpose. Present tense (continuously)

This is not knowing about Christ.

Vast difference between doing things for Christ and knowing Him.  Write down
everything that you can't do without - finances, degrees, work, spouse,
children. Is there anything there that replaces your importance on the
relationship with Christ?

Christ wants to live His life through you, not in you.

Christ is Paul's passion. What is your passion? Do you know Him daily? Friends
that you really know are your friends because you have been through hell
together - not a casual conversation. A healthy marriage does not grow out of
having a stale knowledge of the other person - but constantly getting to know
the other person. 

Knowing Christ comes by gazing on the face of the person of Christ as presented
in the Scriptures. It's hiding nothing from His eyes. It's submission to Him, in
everything. 

_How do you know Christ even though you don't see Him_?

Is God calling you to full-time Christian service? 
__We don't need full time Christian service as much as we need full time
Christians__!


## v10,11 The process

How do we do this?


"The power of His ressurection" 

_Rom 6:5_: The process includes the ressurected life.

### The Resurrection

Ressurection power works when all other hope is otherwise gone.

When Jesus died there was nothing left to live with for the disciples. But when
the ressurection came they had a new vigor, a purpose.

Despair into hope, fear into joy, anger into forgiveness.
 
For a lot of Christians are "failing" because they are not hanging out with the
power source of Christ.

Often we bring a self-centeredness attitude towards God. We have our own agenda,
our own desires.

In sports when something isn't working you go back to the basics. _Same in the
Christian life_. Are you "hanging out with Him"? Are you confessing your sin?
Are you trusting Him? Is your attitude right? Are you reading His scripture?


### The suffering

Suffering with Christ is a large part of knowing Christ.

In order to be resurrection, you must first die, and Christ suffered before He
died. 

 God always suffers. (1 Cor 13:4 - "Love suffers long"). Love involves long
 suffering - patience - which involves pain.

 We are going to suffer persecution. People are going to dislike you because
 your are a Christian! 

 Christ's own people threw Him out! Saying "He's nuts!!!" Right up to the point
 on the cross His siblings didn't believe Him at all!

 "Psalm" - Greek (psalmoi) - the playing of musical instruments and by extension
 the words acccompanying the music.

 David's faint hope blosomed into full song of rejoicing in the Lord's
 greatness.

 David learned the heart of God by his suffering.

### The product

"To be conformed to his death" - you have a death

v11. "to attain the resurrection of the dead". Refers to the likeness of Christ
not the eventual ressurection of heaven (and thereby salvation).

## Application

1. Saving knowledge of Christ
1. It must begin with a deep desire to know Christ (Ex 13:13)
1. Have a plan. Devotional time with the lord.
1. Dwell on these (sermon notes) truths. And also what scripture says.
