-----
author: Dr. Byron Morgan
title: Jesus On Money
-----

# Intro

Woman (Birtha Adams) dies due to malnutrition. Her home was a pig pen, complete
disarray. From all appearances she was a penniless, forgotten widow. Turns out
she actually had security deposist boxes worth millions.

This is a picture of our spiritual life when concerning money. We feel a
balance between what the world says what we should have and what Scripture
teaches us.

The law of the pharisees.

They were not religous professionals (like preists). They were religous layman
with strict adherance to their religous laws.

They were wealthy, but this wasn't their reward for their righteousness. People
can live a good life, and be wealhty. 

_Matthew 6:9_

_Matthew 6:19-24_

v25 is related to vv19-24. Christ is saying: put your money in the right
perspective!

There are 3 perspectives: 

# Single Treasure

_Matthew 6:19-21_ 
: we are commanded to have a single treasure

One out of every 10 verses in the Gospel is devouted to something on
stewardship.

What we do with the things we own matter, they are a gift from God and He made
us stewards over them.

"Lay up"
: thesaurizo

"treasure"
: thesauros

Christ is saying "do not treasure up treasures for yourself"

The idea is of stock piling or hoarding! Do not let your wealth go unused!

To many people find their identity in what they own or what they posses.

It's not: "Who wants to be a millionare?"
The right question: "What would you be willing to do to be millionare?"

Our Lord is NOT saying to own nothing. 

_Proverbs 6:6_ 
_1 Corithians 14_

the commandment "Do not steal" implies someone is storing something!

_Luke 12:15_

Often we think "who we are" is often wrapped up in our possesions. 

_Luke 12:16_ 

The flaw of this man was that he thought he could take shortcuts to life; he
could store up wealth for himself and then not work. His money became his
security. 

The world would consider this man to be successful.

How people stored their money was by:

1. storing garments. Sometimes people would weave gold theads in their fabric
   to both keep and display their wealth.
2. storing grain. This was food security.
  "rust"
  : brosis
  : an eating
3. Exchanging assets for god. 
  "break in"
  : diorusso
  : "dig through"

Christ is saying "don't spend your life storing up wealth for yourself!". 

It's not just wealth. It's anything that satisified by deep longings. We try to
satisify them in co-dependent ways.

_Matthew 6:21_
: Where you put your money that's where your treasure is found most. 

# Single Vision

_Matthew 6:23_

When our thoughts are filled with eternity, we will have a clear eye

"clear"
: haplous
: can mean "single" as it is translated in King James

"Singleness of purpose is one great secret of spiritual prosperity."

# Single Master

_Matthew 6:24_

A 1st century slave served 24-7! Here Christ is saying, that you will be 100%
devoted to either your wealth, or God. 

"wealth"
: aramaic for mammon
: with possessions with property (including money)

Money is a wonderful servant, but a terrible master.

# Application

What occupies your thoughts when you have nothing else to do?

What do you fear or fret about the most?

What or whom do you most dread losing?

What are the things by which you measure others?

What is it that you feel like you cannot be happy without?
