% When Life Hurts - Luke 6:20-23
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Introduction

The world laughs at things we shouldn't laugh at. And cries at things we should
cry at.

_Ecclesiastes 3:4_

A sense of happiness is often used as a saught after narcotic to relieve
or avoid the pain in their lives.

There is a time to weep! 

_Luke 6:21_ 

"you who weep" 
: or "you who are weeping now"

# When is it Godly to weep?

## Grieve over your own sin

There is a time when we need to realize how broken a people we are! 
And when we are struggling with a sin; go before God in mourning.

_2 Corinthians 7:9-10_ - sorrowful to the point of repentance which has no
regret.

This is not shame or condemnation. While sorrow can be an avenue to salvation,
this passage is talking about sanctification. This sorrow is to lead to
confession, and restoration.

"salvation"
: "sozo"
: deliverance

This is _not_ saying that we 

## Grieve over the sin in the world 

Isaiah says Christ was a man aquainted with grief. He himself was grieved over
the sin of the people.

_Matthew 9_ 
_Matthew 23:47_ 
: Christ weeps over the sinfullness of the people arouund him.

_Psalm 119:136_

## Grieve over the sin in the body of Christ

_James 4:1-10_

Here James is talking about the lust of ego.

"Cleanse your hands" - a figurative statement for being restored to fellowship.

When we see division in the body of Christ we are to grieve.

We are to mourn over the division so we can laugh later.

# How do we know when to stop grieving?

## When we are realize we are being disciplined

We stop grieving when we realize we have something to do about it.

We are not punished by God but disciplined! We are being restored from God, not
punished!

Remember the battle of Jerico, and Ai in Israel. When they were defeated they
were grieving alot! God's response to the sin of Acon was not "oh you poor thing",
instead he said get up!

_Joshua 7:10_

## When we have confessed our sins and/or restored

_Psalm 32:2_

"blessed"
: "ashar" 
: means happy! 

This Psalm is saying "it is time to move on!"

WHy is this important? Because so often we live our lives in the past! We blow
it and we live with the shame and guit. 

## When God has closed the door

When a dream is broken, the opportunity has passed. 

You are not grieving because of your sin but because of an opportunity that has
passed.

_2 Samuel 11_

David weeped over the sin with Bethsheba, however when David heard the news of
the death he got up and moved on with his life.

## When God sends his comforters

_2 Corithians 1_


_2 Corithians 7_

Paul here is depressed! But God, sends Titus - a spiritual son - to comfort Paul.

# When is it wrong to laugh?

## When you are avoiding your sin

_Luke 6:25_

"woe"
: it conveys a warning saying "I pity you if this is correct"

It is said that Nero was fiddling as Rome was burning. This is the kind of
laughter that doesn't want to face the issues of life.

This is when we use humor to deflect the issues of life.

_Amos 6:4_

God says "you've got a problem!" But all you seem to want to do is party.

_2 Timothy 3:16_

## When it is at the expense of another's faults

_Proverbs 24:17_

## When we laugh about sin

_Ephesians 5:3-4_

# Application

Kingdom living says our laughter should not be the same as the rest of the
world.

When we commit sin we should grieve and change our minds (repent) and confess
it.

When sin is confessed and I am restored God wants me to rejoice and be glad.

Christ is our road, we can't learn to live rightside up by listening to the
world, we must listen to Christ!
