---
title: Job's Test - _Job 1_
author: Dr. Byron Morgan
---

# Intro

Suffering is not expected today in the Christian Church. 

During the Naiceen Conference out of 300+ people only 12 had whole bodies that
weren't malled in some way due to persecution.


In order for a Christian to grow he must have some resistance

# Context

Books is a classic using poems and prose

Author: no clue, tradition holds that Moses was.

Where: Land of Uz. Close to south Syria

# Who is Job?

"blameless" - (tam) complete in nothing, balanced and integrated in his
character"

It doesn't mean that he never sinned but that when He did he confessed it and
dealt with it in the way that God wanted Him to.

"upright" - without deviating from God's holy standard

> _If you do what's right life would be much easier [within a context]_ - Byron Morgan

"fear" (yare) - a healthy perspective on God that has a desire to not disappoint God

"sovereignty" - God is above all.

"greatest of all the men of the east" - The Bible doesn't condemn prosperity,
however it does state that riches can be a trap for some people.

Some of the most Godly men are millionares.

Job was a good father. He would offer burnt offerings (not a sin offering from
the Mosaic law) for them which noted that they had an interest in the spiritual
growth of their chilren. Job understood that people needed to be reminded of
God's place in their lives especially during times of prosperity.

# Who is Satan

_Eph 1:3_ - "heavenly places" is not refering to something above us. But the
spiritual releam of which is going on right now.


"The sons of God" - the angels. This is not the same as used in the NT. In the
OT this speaks of angels (possibly only fallen angels). 

"Satan" - the adversary

"Where have you come from?" - God is omniscient however 

Satan's activity - "going to and fro throughout the earth". He is not
omnipresent but he has lots of deamons. He is looking for people to destroy,
devour and ruin the lives of people. Why? Because we bare the image of God.

# What happens to Job? (round 1)

1. Sabeans attack his ox and donkey heards
2. A fire consumed his sheep and servants
3. Chaldeans raided his camels and killed his servants
4. His sons and daughters were killed during one of their parties.

If we aren't walking close to the father Satan can strike at us.

## Job's response

* He worships God
* The Lord has blessed me, why cannot He take my life away.


# Application

1. We have a real adversary that cannot be seen. Stay close to the Father.
2. We have have a sovereign God that we can trust. Stay close to the Father.
