% Dr. Byron Morgan
% Luke 6:46

We are exposed to tons of information every day!

And most of it bores us - and much of it is not true.

What causes us to stop and listen? A sense of urgency!

3 resons as to why the people should be motivated to listen to what Jesus has
said.

# God is the Boss 

_Luke 6:46_

"Lord"
: speaks of Christ's deity
: when repeated it speaks of "teacher of teachers", "master of masters", and
  "God of all Gods"

_Revelation 17:12-15_

Jesus is speaking to zealous, pious, passionate Jewish people who believe in
YWYH.

In this passage Jesus isn't just talking about stashing up on knowledge! He is
calling them to transform their lives based on the knowledge they are given.

We are in the grace age. Why do we call it this? Because there is more grace
now than there was before because of the first coming of Christ

What does the young engineer do what the office when he's amoung a bunch of
malcontents when the boss walks in? He puts himself under the authority of
Christ. 

Christ is your boss! Do what He wants you to do! Submit yourself to
Him. While other people will say otherwise keep the mentality.

When God speaks we pull out the yellow pad and pursue righteousness!

# A Well built life

_Luke 6:47-48_

Because of the benefits we have!

We don't want to get close to preaching a prosperity gospel!

Each tree is being known by its fruit! _Luke 6:44_. If the H.S is working in
your life then there will be fruit.

_Luke 6:42_ - when you remove that judgemental spirit from your life you are
more prepared to administer to others.

"The rock". When you are obedient there is a measure of strength and fortitude
and courge to stand against the tough times in life.

_Proverbs 28:1_

Examples of the "lion roars"
* _Acts 21:12-13_
* _Acts 25:8-9_

Living on the rock means we begin to live by the principles of Christ which
sets-up a pattern in our life wherein when the trials of life come our pattern
is rock solid and we don't flinch.

Do we have to live in obedience before we are blessed? No. _Ephesians 1_ says
that we have been given all spiritual blessings! We already have them, but
living by obedience is like cashing the checks for the money God has put in the
bank.

_Joshua 1:8_ 

We cannot choose which things we obey God with! We must have full obedience!

# The Consequences of not

_Luke 6:49_

Who would build a house in a river bed

"hear"
: passive hearing
: "akouo

"huper"
: word we get for "hyper"

"obey"
: "hupakouo"
: hyper listening, careful listening!

To often we listen with half a head

_Proverbs 1:22-32_

"Wisdom" is not worldly smarts but an application of God given knowledge

Are you living to close where you fell in?

# Application 

Compare your self to where you were 2 years ago:

* prayer life
* what about my giving? amount and joy therein?
* church loyalty
* bible study, am I learning to learn?
