# Joyful Spiritual Aerobics

Philippians 2:12-18

We gain by being a servant. We live by dying

Are you focusing on the needs of your spouse?

"He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose"

v3 - Do nothing from selfishness! 

The path to joy is through humility.

We oft are addicted to needs of personal affirmation

If I am walking in fellowship, God will work out his purposes in our life

By putting yourself first you imprison yourself

## Servanthood Translated

### Mandate

Obedience -> work out your salvation (because you're saved be obedient!)

"work out": the emphasis is on you doing this. To effect  by labor

v12: "So then," - in light of everything I've said up to this point.

God cannot pilot a parked car! Growing in Christ takes sweat! In order for the
effects of being saved to manifest itself in your life you must do something -
obey! 

1 Cor 10:12

Rom 12:2

Eph 6:5-6 - whatever you do do it knowing Christ is coming.

v13: Man's initiative & God's initiative. 

When man takes initiative God responds.

The one who works the working is God

"work" - "energeo" or "energy" When we are plugged into God we have his eternal
power at work in us. 

The one who energizes the energy is God

2 Cor 3:5 - our sufficiency is of God

Heb 13:20-21

Believers give up on believing that the Holy Spirit can change our hearts. He can
change your relationship. 

### the attitude 
v14: - no grumbling, no dispute. Attitude is vital! 

"grumble" - "guggosmon"

They weren't fighting over doctrine but they were bickering over who was going
to be first. They had hearts that were selfish.

1 Cor 10:10 

James 5:9

It's easy to analyze everyone else when the problem can be ourselves.

## the purpose
v15 - so you can have a blameless life and a pure life.

"blameless" - unmixed, unadulterated, undiluted, pure.

If you don't live in harmony with one another then you'll have a tainted
testimony

Deut 32:5

We shine constantly to the word, and we are to be a pure light so that others
may see us living a life in Christ and come to Him.

DONT GIVE UP! DONT GIVE UP!  DONT GIVE UP! 


## Application

* Walk gently and carefully before your master. If you do you'll be blessed and
  have joy.

* "Poverty in spirit is the porch of the temple of blessedness"
