# What's Important To You?

Phil 3:1-11

## Intro

It is vital to know why we're here on this earth! 

What is important in your life? 

Each area of life has its rewards. Whatever endevour you are a part of has its
reward. 

So oft people do things that bring them validation; that tells other people that
we are something.

_Tyranny of the Urgent_

A woman who wouldn't let go of her purse was washed away - she clung  to her
sense of validation.

So many people spend all their time to reach the top of the ladder 

_We are driven_ by Hemfelt Minirth and Meier. 

Driveness si an insatiable drive to do more and be more. ...often mask the
feelings of inadequecy and shame. 

The driveness is often used to prove ourselves (not validating yourself to another).

The answer is found in understanding how God sees you.

### Review

* There is joy in adverse circumstances 
* there is joy in serving others
* there is joy in knowing Christ
* there is joy in the adquacy of Christ

## 3:1-

### "Finally"

"loipon" as for the rest, something remaining.

refering to the last thing Paul needs to talk about.

The problem: Judiasers were coming down (who were preaching a false Gospel).
Their Gospel was "Christ plus..."

Law of Mosses: 365 negative command and 250 positive commands. Created by the
Pharisees. 

Matt 5:20. Christ blows this out of the water!

## 3:2

Rejoice in the Lord: __a command__

"Find your chief joy in the Lord! and in nothing else!"

Not in any other pursuit. Should you do your job well? Absolutely. But nothing
should replace the joy in your life. Nothing should be as fullfilling as your
understanding who Christ is and what He has done.

The Law was given to the Jews. The Moral Law was given to point man to the need
of a Savior.

The Ceremonial and civil Laws were given as a picture of the Christian life. They were
__only__ for the Jews. 

When Christ rose - because we have the power of the Spirit in us - then we are no
longer under the ceremonial law

There are a lot of believers who think they have to earn the favor of Christ.
Either unto salvation or simply favor.

"Dogs": You refer the Gentiles as the "dogs". But you are really the dogs
because you devour others with false teaching?

Isiah 56 - Isiah calls the people of Israel dogs because they are rejecting the
truth.

This false doctrine today looks like legalism.

Forces others to wear a mask. 

## 3:3-6 

"No confidence in the flesh" - "do not put confidence in human credentials"

Modern parallel to v5:

"I was born in a Godly home. Baptised at 3 years old and never got into trouble.
I started preaching at a young age, and I've had great success in teaching
others. I've I had a passion above anyone else. People look up to me; I've made
a name for myself. As for work: I created my own company, I can design programs
with praisable speed and design."

## 3:7

Paul's attitude: "What I used to value I now see as completely useless!"

said in "greek perfect tense": "I realized at one point in time i saw that as
useless and I left it behind for the sake of Christ"

His scope of his life was broadened! He saw His life as more than the day to day
progress; more than results, more than "This is what I need to do" or "this is
what I have done or should be doing".

"For the sake of the kingdom of God I counted all this as nothing".
 
"A man is no fool who gives up what he cannot keep, to gain what he cannot
lose".

## 3:8

Contrast between v7. and v8.

v7 counted as rubbish for the sake of the Kingdom (the eternal perspective)

v8 counted as rubbish for currently knowing Christ (the current perspective)

"rubbish" - "skubala" Poop.

_I hold all things loosely so that  Christ can reign without rival_ - Chuck
Swindol.

## Application

The greatest pursuit is the knowing of Christ.

The greatest purpose is the kingdom of God.

