----
title: Job in the Hot Seat - _Job 38-42_
author: Dr. Byron Morgan
-------

# Intro

## Counciling

1. Know who God is. Remove the destorted images of God from your mind.
2. Know who you are in Christ.

Get a good grasp of 1. before you can get a good grasp of 2.

How can you believe that God will accept you and is faithful towards you if you
believe that he is a hard-baring God who is waiting to strike?!

Your perception of who God is determines how you handle hard times.

Job did't have the complete Bible.

Sometimes we think that Job was untouchable; he was perfect. Yet he had
wrongful thinkging.

Elihu however corrects the thinking of Job by telling Job that his emotions
have controlled Him. 

You say that He's unjust and uncaring. but i say that He's caring and righteous

"I will take God to court and show that I'm right!" - Job
This is wrong thinking and a lack of humility. 

Now God has shown up. 

# God answers Job. _Job 38:1-_

_Nahum 1:3_

Storms are often connected to God's judgement.

_Exodus 19_ God answers Moses with thunder.

Theophany
: Like a Christophany 
: God's appearance to man in the OT

Job had been calling God into question. 

## _Job 38:2_ 

Job is now in the hot seat!

Job has now been so caught up in the situation that he's in that his
understanding has been eclipsed.

__Often we don't hear God because of our complaints.__

God is about to ask Job 77 questions - and Job doesn't have a clue to the
answers.

2 sections 

### _Job 38_ - Can You Explain My Creation?

God is employing 

_Job 38:32_ 
The bear refers to the Big dipper.

### _Job 38:39 - 39:30_  - Can You Care For My Creation?

Can you feed the animal kingdom?

### _Job 40:1-5_ - God interrogates Job

Job now recognizes that he's not in the same league with God.

His mouth gets quiet but his heart isn't quite humbe yet.

God wants to change Job's thinking in order to change His heart.

> "The heart of the matter is the matter of the heart" - Max Lucado

# Application

A lost perspective of God almighy can lead to catastrophic results of the
unbeliever.

When God is doing something you don't understand

  * Be humble
  * Be quiet
  * Be Listen
  * Be Trust
