% What about Glory To God?
% Dr. Byron Morgan.

# Introduction

While Christ has come give us new life. 

"glory"
: hebrew: "Kabad"
: to give weight or credit to.

The main purpose of Christ's coming is His glory! The main theme of life, and
scripture itself must fall within this.

Why do we exist? Life is not about having it good, or "progressing" in
character or material existence. But our purpose and existence is for His
glory!


Our ultimate goal should be the display of the glory of God. 

The OT is full of evidence of God doing things for His glory.

_Ezekiel 20:9_
_Exodus 14:4_

# How did the incarnation bring Glory To God?

## Demonstration of a perfect Life

_1 Peter 2:22_ 
_Hebrews 4:15_

_Romans 3:23_

Up until the incarnation everyone came short of Christ's glory. Why? Because He
gave us an example of what a godly life looks like.

_John 1:14-18_

"He has explained Him"

"explained"
: exegeomai
: to exegete, to unfold, to make known

What John is saying here is that Jesus is the exegetical digest of God himself.

God himself says "That's my Son!" That's what life is supposed to look like.

At age x God could say "That's how a x year old should live" of Jesus.

The rich young ruler _Luke 18:19_

## Demonstration a perfect Love

_1 John 3:13-16_

_Romans 5:7_ 

God demonstrated his grace!

Noah, would you die for someone? God did.

In the OT they were given the greatest commandment! But they had no example!
They had no clue how to do this perfectly.

_John 13:14_ Christ was the perfect example for how we are to love one another.

_Isaiah 9:6_ 

Because of Israel's unfaithfulness God was going to punish Isreal. But, inspite
of your adultery I am going to be faithful to you and you can know that because
I am going to give you a child that is born of a virgin.
 
## Demonstration a perfect forgiveness

_Collosians 3:13_ 

"just as"
: NT is replete with this phrase.

In the Jewish system you forgave 3 times. After that you didn't have to forgive
and you could even hate your enemies.

_Luke 6:27_

# Application

## Obey Him (_2 Corinthians 3:18_)

Abid in Him

_Luke 6:46_

## Depend on Him (_John 15:5_)

God doesn't call us  to be perfect but to progress

__Am I more like Christ now than I was 1 year ago? 2 years ago? 5 years ago?__

