----
title: Responding Wisely when Falsely Accused - Job 18
author: Dr. Byron Morgan
-----

# Intro

Lincoln was falsely accused! From without and within - including his own
cabinet.  No matter what he did there will always be someone who didn't agree
with him.  Through it all though he held his tongue and forbore every attack.

3 cycles of debates in Job

1. 4-5, 8,11
1. 15,18,20
1. 22,35

## _Job 18:1-21_ 
Bildad is speaking

The death of the wicked is ugly!

It is the grace of God that should motivate us. However, fear is a proper
motive for people coming to Christ. Is it harsh? _Matt 10:28_ Christ himself
tells the unsaved to fear God who can send people to hell. _2 Corinthians 5:11_
Paul says that we have a sense of urgency to reach the lost!

However, these men, cut Job apart with the wrong motive and context.

## _Galatians 6:1_

How should we confront someone who needs it?

"restore"
: used for restoring broken bones

With grace, and gentleness.

See also _James 2:8_.

Bildad and Zophar were angry that their council were not being considered.
Their reaction was to accuse Job of going to die a horrible death as a sinner -
a fear tactic.

4 vivid pictures of death by Bildad


1. A fire that is smoldering that then goes out. _Job 18:6_
1. A traveler running because of fear and is caught in traps. _Job 18:7-10_
1. A criminal pursued _Job 18:11-15_
1. A tree that is rooted up because the roots have died _Job 18:16-21_

All the above are true for the unsaved. However, this doesn't mean squat for
the saved.

# Job's Response _Job 19:1-4_

"shame"
: "bosh"
: to be confounded disappointed, disgraced, or perplexed.

1. A trapped animal _Job 19:8_ - God you have walled me in and I'm surrounded
   in darkness and I don't know why you're doing this but it feels like
   punishment! God is sovereign! Though the time may feel like you're trapped,
   you must have faith and trust that he won't leave you and He cannot exercise
   one attribute to the detriment to another.

1. Criminal in court _Job 19:7_
1. A traveler fenced in _19:8_
1. Like a King that is dethroned _19:9_
1. A structure destroyed _19:10_
1. An uprooted tree _19:10_
1. Isolation _13:20_


At times God permits His children to be in a dead end street _Job 13:15_

_Isaiah 50:10_ - Trust in the name Lord (for he has integrity). 

> "Never doubt in the darkness what God has taught you in the light." - Anonymous

[The sermon] is the lecture, life is the lab! You must study! But you must also
practice and trust in God.

> "Do not begrudge the darkness of the soul" - Oswald Chambers

God knows what He's about.

_Job 19:21_ - Job is also fearing that what he is about and doing will be
forgotten. He is longing to be heard and to be comforted!

"Redeemer"
: go'el
: used 45 time in OT
: used as a kinsman redeemer
: 3 words used in describing Christ each to describe buying someone out of the 
slave market.
: can be used to mean "vindicator"

_Acts 4:12_

There is a seed of Bildad and Zophar is in all of us - the temptation to be
judgemental and hard-nosed. 

"The builder" by Anonymous

> I saw them tearing a building down
> A team of men in my hometown.
> With a heave and a ho and a yes yes yell,
> they swung a beam and a sidewall fell.
> 
> And I said to the foreman, "Are these men skilled?"
> "Like the ones you'd use if you had to build?"
> And he laughed and said, "Oh no, indeed...
> the most common labor is all I need...
> for I can destroy in a day or two
> what takes a builder ten years to do."
> 
> So I thought to myself as I went on my way...
> Which one of these roles am I willing to play?
> Am I one who is tearing down as I carelessly make my way around?
> Or am I one who builds with care, in order to make the world a
> little better... because I was there?
