---
title: Hope in the most of Despair - _Job 11-12_
author: Dr. Byron Morgan
---

# Intro

Job up to this point is having a melt down. 

Why? 

* Job had just gotten whacked by Satan
* His friends accused him of something he didn't do (sin)


Job is as a heavy weight fighter; he's been knocked down but he's fighting to
get back up.

# _Job 11:1-4_

1. Job is guilty

Zophar accuses Job of:

* arrogant
* Foolish
* All you're doing is talking but you're not making any sense!

# _Job 11:5-7,11-12_

2. Job is ignorant and stupid

Zophar makes the mistake that legalists make - he assumes he knows God's will 
for job

Watch your tongue! Just because you think you're right doesn't mean you really 
are! Humble yourself, and don't always speak what's on your mind.

# _Job 12:7-12_
Job is saying "No one understands the mind of God. He does what He pleases and 
does holds the life of everything in His hands. It lives by His hand.

God has no rival, no counterpart.

# _Job 13:15-19_

Job is starting to fight back.

Job states, God can be trusted; "you" (Job's friends) don't know what is the 
mind of God!

They are worthless physicians (spiritually) - a good friend

_Job 12:15_ - on the greatest declarations of faith.

"hope"
: "yachal"
: trust; expect; to be patient; to wait

Job is saying

"If I could just bring God into court and present my case, then I would be 
vindicated. And I know that I'm taking my life into my own hands 
by arguing with God. But I know that if I go before God He will vindicate me!

"salvation"
: "Yeshuah"
: salvation, help, deliverance, victory, welfare

# Application
## How do we kindle hope?

Remember God's sovereignty. 

1. God sends trials - Job's trouble originated at the throne of God.  _1 Cor
   10:13_. God plans all trials, nothing can surprise Him.

2. Every trial has a purpose, God uses trials! _1 Pe 1:6-7_. This should
   enspire hope!

3. God removes all trials. No trial is never-ending. __God is never late!__

4. God controls the trials. Even when we experience the temporary damage of the
   sins of another we are never influence and sovereignty of God.


Be very careful about pre-judging others that are going through a difficult 
time.

When a friend asks "why" don't try and give a theological answer! Instead say
"I don't know but I'm here with you through this". 

Know that God is sovereign, and that attribute of God is tempered by His grace,
mercy, and goodness.
