# The Attitude Leading To Joy

Philippians 1:21-30

## Intro

Dr. Chung's story by Kent Hughes

"For me to live is Christ, to die is gain". This should be the heart of every
believer.

### The Apostle Paul's Joyful Confidence

v21. "For me" - placed at beginning of the sentence for emphasis. Thus Paul
declares that "I don't know about you, but for me this is why I live". Paul is
being an example to the believers.

The secret to living well is the same as the secret to having joy: The
centrality of Jesus Christ.

When Christ is at the center. He delivers us from our preoccupation with how
others view us.

As an olympic gold medal winner looks for his spouse in the crowd; disregarding
the applause of the crowd; so a Christian should live to please Christ and look
for His smile amongst the temporary applause of others.

>"He is no fool who gives up what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose" 
>-Jim Elliot

>To die is to cash in both principal and interest"

    v21. How does Paul have the ability to choose whether he dies or not when
    we ignore his ability to commit suicide?

Paul is not living frozen by fear. Death is not the defeat of the believer.

#### v22 Paul uses synkrisis

1. Benefits - liabilities
1. Die as martyr - be absent from those who needed him
2. Instantly be in glory - no longer be a living witness for Christ
3. continue to have fruitful labor - absent from physical presence of Christ
4. Provide security - heavenly glory
5. train the next generation - suffering of this world.

### The Dilemmas That Rob Us Of Joy

v27. A gap between what we know and how we live. 

"conduct" (politeuo) - manner of life 

Context: The people of Philippi loved the Romans and rather had them rule over
them than the Macedonians. They had patriotism of Rome. In the same manner Paul
is calling the Philippians to have the same attitude toward Christ. "conduct
yourselves in a manner worthy of the Gospel of Christ"

Stand and hold your ground when others oppose you and the Gospel. 

This is possibly the most the most mature Church that Paul wrote. And still he
commands them to watch themselves and to not give in; stand for the truth!

We have a moral disease today: relativism and humanism: Whatever you believe is
OK.

"If a man continually blusters, a bit stick will not save him from trouble; and
neither will speaking softly avail" - Theodore Roosevelt

v29. Suffering is a gift. (Remember God is not going to give you more than you
can bare).

## Application

1. Joy comes by releasing not controlling. We try and control we lose.
2. Joy has nothing to do with our circumstances - only our perspective.

Prayer: God help me to see my life more and more from your vantage point.
