# The Church: God's Great Greenhouse

The Church is in a crisis
  * the church has a "lead pastor" not a "shepherd pastor"
  * Bill Hall: "The Christian Leader": THe question that has nagged me is this.
    Did Christ fit the cooprate leadership profile? [Nope]. We have paid homage
    to a secular model for the church.
  * When it comes to health the doctor looks at the heart
  * What are the vital signs of the church?
  * How can we tell if the church is "built up" as it should be?
  * How can we know if we are filling God's purpose for the church?
  * WHat is the biblical paradigm that transcends the church

## Purpose of the church: Transformation
Eph vv. 11-12.

* "For" == "unto" 
* The leaders of the church's purpose is for the equipping of the saints. 

###  "Equip" 

* Medical term of restoring a broken bone
* mending of a fisherman's net.
* "to restore"

### "ministry" == "diakonia"

* serviceable labor, service or assistance
* the pastor is not the only minister
* __everyone is called to be a minister!__

### Example
Football player is sitting as far away from the coach as possible because he
doesn't want to play because:

  1. He doesn't want to get hurt

## The Goal of the Church v13: 

### 1. Unity of Faith

  * someone who is mature will not cause division but will be a peacemaker and
    seek for unity
  * The gifted leaders are to 
  * In the essentials unity, in the non-essentials liberty, in all things
    charity
  * What are the essentials: 

    * virgin purth
    * death of christ
    * resurrection of christ
    * Eph 2:8-10
    * Justification and atonement

#### "Arrive" == "katantao" 

* to arrive
* one thing that keeps us from arriving is the lack of good doctrine


### 2. Knowledge "Epignosis" of the Son of God

  * not mental only
  * not highest form of knowledge ("oida")
  * experiential knowledge based on what the Word of God says

### 3. To a mature man

#### "Mature" == "toleios"

*  complete, mature, perfect
* as the moon reflects the son so we are to reflect the image of Christ.

### 4. To the measure of the stature which belongs to the fullness of Christ.

* God's over-arching goal is to fill the Church with ordinary men and women who
  resemble Christ.

__THE JOURNEY IS NOT AN EMOTIONAL EXPERIENCE. BUT A FULL AND COMPLETE
RELATIONSHIP WITH CHRIST!__

### 5. Not Children v14

  * not tossed about by every wind of doctrine. He is firm in his belief and not
    chasing after every different hobby.

### but speaking the truth in love (v15).

  * "truthing it in love"! 
  * having believers around you when we can be less than perfect.

### "Grow up in all aspects"

  * participle?
  * the process == "love"
  * Love is the greenhouse for the growth of the church

### "Fit together" v16

  * by what every joint supplies.
  * "Building itself up ..." in love not numbers!
  * The body doesn't work by the cells getting together and voting who is the
    most important and what they should do. But instead they each do what they
    are created to do.
  * 3 times the word love is used here.
  * Use your spiritual gift! But not only your spiritual gift! There are many
    people who have strong development of their spiritual gifts and are
    immature.
  * The body is something of grace
  * If are part of the body doesn't receive blood then it dies, in the same
    manner if a part of the body doesn't receive the love from the rest it will
    die

### Revelation 3:8

  1. The church kept His Word - they were obedient
  2. They didn't deny His name
  3. little power. (many churches are big, but have little power)

## Application

### Transformation! 

  * Make disciples, reaching out to people (not numbers) 
  * our goal is not of numbers! 
  * If that is their goal then we will fail. 
  * Run from "growth idolatry" (Church Unique by Will Mancini).
  * The quality of Church is to be a heart for God.
  * Matthew 28:19 - you have been given the authorization to make disciples.
