----
title: God's plan for your child - _Proverbs 22:6_
author: Dr Byron Morgan
----

# Intro

> Train up a child in the way he should go,
> Even when he is old he will not depart from it
> _Proverbs 22:6_

God has many principles in raising children.

This passage doesn't mean that if you raise your child in the Church then he'll
stay in the church.

Proverbs are not unmitigated promises! They are rules of thumb! There are
exceptions!

"Bible Knowledge commentary" - a literary device where a general truth is
brouth to bear on a given situtation.

Your chilren are on loan to you! They are God's not yours.

# Proverbs 22:6

"train"
: "channakh"
: to train, dedicate, inaugurate
: This is used to break a wild stalion or the rubbing of a sweet gum onto the
pallet of the child to simulate sucking.
: to affect the taste.
: To train a child is to create a thirst in the child for the task he need's to 
be  trained for

What are we giving them a taste for? 

"The way he should go"

WHat is the way? 

"should go"
: "peh"
: appointment, intention

Most believe that it's the word of God. While we should raise your child in the
word of God. Here it is saying "his way" where "his" is referring to the child.
This refers to the makeup of the child - the design of the child.


_Psalm 112:7-12_

"bend"
: The natural inclination of the child.

# Application

connect to your child

become a student of your child (just as you become a student of your spouse)

pray for your child especially for wisdom

do everything with your power to maintain communication with your child!
