# Joy's Spiritual Wardrobe 

Philippians 2:1-11

## Intro v1-4

When we think our viewpoint is better than the others we get into trouble with
our spouse.

James 4:1 - a strong competitive spirit can leave to the ruin of joy.
James 3:14-16 - the description of selfishness

Root of selfishness: pride. Me first. When selfishness reigns joy is removed.

### Motivation of Selflessness

Therefore: v27 
  * based on your citizenship in heaven. 
  * The joy of having Christ as the center (how do I do it?).
  * The servanthood of the Christian

The motivation of what Paul is about to say: Imagine sitting down with the Lord
and Him asking you if you have experienced the below list of attributes by
working with God. You answer "of course I have". Then He says, "then I want you
to do these things". This is how we live; based on our gratitude and response
to the "benefit package" that comes with living in fellowship with Christ.

If there is any:

  * encouragement
  * consolation of love - the love of Christ and forgiveness
  * fellowship in the Spirit - the day by day walking with God. Not on our own but with God.
  * affection - the face God shows us despite our sins
  * mercy - the root attitude that God gives us.

### Product of Selflessness

v2: then have product of humility: (all verbs are participles which means they are going on at the same
time as the main verb)
  * complete my joy 
  * be of the same mind
  * have same love
  * united in spirit
  * have one purpose

### Attitude of Selflessness

Don't be:
  * motivated by selfish ambition 
  * motivated by vanity
  * concerned with only your own interests
Do be:
  * be moved in humility
  * to treat one another as more important than yourself
  * be concerned with the interests of others as well
  * have the same attribute toward one another as Christ had

### Example of Selflessness

The hypostatic union of Christ 

"form": "morphe" - the very essence of the nature of a being

"grasped": "harpagmos" - a prize to gain or something to be seized with the
purpose of retaining.

"kenosis"
  * "from Divine Glory"
    1. incarnation
    1. obedience
  * "To Divine Glory"
    1. death on cross
    1. resurrection
    1. exaltation

Attitude of Christ:
  * existed in the form of God
  * did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped
  * Emptied Himself by:
    * took the form of a slave
    * looking like other men
    * sharing in the human nature
  * Humbled himself
  * became obedient to the point of death (even on a cross) 

so then:
  * God exulted them highly
  * gave Him a name above every name. To the point that every name (on heaven
    and earth) will bow. 
  * every tongue confess that Christ Jesus is Lord to the glory of God the
    Father. (Note: Christ's glory is not for Himself but the Father)

God uses our disagreements to sharpen us. "Differences are not the reason for
divorce but for marriage". Marriage is designed not to make us happy but to make
us Holy.

## Application

The wardrobe of joy is selflessness.
