# Confident Joy

Philippians 1:1-11

Neitzche - "...if you want me to believe in your redeemer you have got to look a
lot more redeemed"

many Christians walk around looking like they have a night job in a mortuary.

This should not be so! Joy should be deeply embedded in our hearts.

As believers our tale needs to wag a bit more. 

    How does this play with our personalities? Some people are more bent towards a
    high-spirit others are naturally more mellow.

    Is joy a feeling (emotion)? - NO! It is a disposition.

    Is what does joy look like in a person that is more calm?

    Is joy something more for senguin people?

__What caused Paul to have joy?__

## Context

* During Paul's second missionary journey
* Paul has just travelled over to Macedonia. (Paul was told not to go to
  Ephesus during his second trip).

### Philippi

* A Roman colony
* The Romans invaded the city but ran out of salt (money to pay soldiers with).
  The people of the city gave the roman army salt to help them defeat the
  Macedonians who were ruling the city.
* Paul enters synagogue (normally) but here there is no synagogue. Instead he
  meets woman washing clothes.
* People saved:
   1. Lydia
   2. slave girl
   3. Roman jailer
* Paul didn't have much to start with in bringing the Church to Philippi
* The Philippi church was a thriving church and full of joy

#### Lydia
* A small merchant city
* People were very wealthy and
* Lydia was a proselyte 

#### A prison epistle
* Paul wrote this book while in a Roman dungeon

## Joy vs Happiness

* Joy is not based on the external (Happiness is)
* joy: Having a fixed confidence that regardless of the circumstance God will
  have His way in my life.
* Paul

## Why could the Philippians have joy? - verse 6

* What caused Paul to experience joy? (v6)
* v6 is a coffee cup passage. It's much quoted and much misapplied.
* "confident" == "peitho"
    * emphatic position
    * to prevail upon, win over

### What is Paul confident about?

1. that God began a good work
2. that God will continue the good work
3. that "good work" is conformity to the image of Christ

* The one who undertakes the *process* takes responsibility for the *progress*
* "perfect" == "epiteleo" 
    * "teleo" to bring to completion, or maturity
* "good" means "conformed to Jesus' image"
* Your life is to grow closer to Christ.

### Why was Paul confident? - v7

    What evidence does paul have that these believers have had this good
    work in them?

* Because for 10 years Paul saw their growth and is convinced that God has
  become a good work in him.
* God doesn't continue His work in someone unless they are walking with him.
* Let's be clear - God by His grace will do what He can to lead that person back
  to fellowship with Him.
* Rev. 3:15,19,20
* Rev 3:20 - this isn't refering to salvation but fellowship
* When the music is heared people will come for the words (Talking about
  attracting people to the church)
* v10 - Your love is to grow more and more in the context of being able to
  descern what is excellent (God's best vs God's second best).
* Descernment vs knowledge:

    * God is saying "the river of love" needs to be kept in its banks
    * You can know alot about the Bible (but it's another thing to live it).
    * Descernment is more epignosis than gnosis.
    * "Descernment" - depth of insight "aisthesis" perception with the senses
      and the mind.

* The loving thing isn't not always the easy or obvious thing.
* Here's how you get here: v11
* "Having been filled"
    * perfect paticiple
    * "simultanious with main verb:  "approve" (in v10 NASB)
    * it's a process!

## Application
Confidence brings joy when: 

* we focus on things which to be thankfull
* we let God be God. Are you confident that God can
  give you outrageous joy?
* I am guided by His Spirit
* The Winds of Fate - Ella Wheeler Wilcox
