---
author: Dr. Byron Morgan
title: The Profile of A Godly Father - 1 Thessalonians 2
date: 2018-06-17
---

# Intro

Everyone has an impact from their father's 

Most people who are committed to their faith at Church see the same patterns in
their children and see that religous discussion in the home increases.

Simply attending Church doesn't make good children! "I take my children to
church because my father took me to Church".


How does a father influence his children? 

What characterizes a father such that he has a large impact on the spiritual
life of his children?

Context

1 Thessalonians 2 The leadership principles that Paul used to bring people to Christ and
evangelize.

Take the leaadership qualities that Paul provides here and apply them to the
Father.

# v8

## "Having such a fond affection for you"

"dear"
: Greek - a term of tenderness and endearment. to feel oneself drawn to
something or someone.

Macho-men are not masculine. Emotionless men are boys.

Luke 15 - the father embraces his son, he shows affection toward his son that
has just come home from being a shame to him.

**How to really love your child**
  * focused attention (date your children). Spend one-on-one time with your child.
  * Eye contact. When you're dating wife you communicate love by looking into
      their eyes. Do the same for your children.
  * Purposeful touch. The wrestling on the floor, the hug, the squeeze on the
      arm, the pat on the bat.

Discipline alone breeds obedience, but coupled with love develops a life long
friendship.

This passage communicates the integrity and realness of fathers. They are not
phoneys.

## "impart to you not only the Gospel"

Good fathers communicate the Gospel to their children. You are making a deposit
when you share the gospel and disciple your children.


"impart"
: Greek - "metadidom" (it carries the idea of making a contribution, sharing
fully).

Fathers should teach their children about finances and what God has to say about
them.

Children want their fathers to laugh with them.

## "Our own lives"

We didn't just titlate your intellect. We poured our lives to you. We gave you
our lives. 
 
> "Children find great security in finding us open and vulnerable." - Chuch
> Swindoll

# v9-10 

## "Working night and day" 

This demonstrates a healthy, biblical work ethic. Have a strong work-ethic. 

_2 Thes 3:8_

_Ecc 9:10_

_Eph 4:28_

_See all passages in proverbs regarding work_

## "how devoutly and blamelessly we behaved toward you"

This demonstrates spiritual authenticity.

Children see right through people that are being plastic. It is refreshing for
children to see their father being authentic and have a heart after God.

This is a calling for a father to teach their children. Not in the fashion of a
lecture, but using opportunities to teach their children as they go through
daily life. This happens when watching TV, driving, cleaning the house, playing.

A Godly life style has little effect on children when compared to the attitude
we have.

"influenza" 
: the origin of the word "influence". We must be contageous to our
children. Our attitudes are very powerful.

"mimetai"
: To imitate, mimmick

_1 Cor 11:1_
_1 Cor 4:16_

# v11-12

## "exhorting and encouraging"

A father encourages his children. What comes out of your mouth tells of what is
in your heart. What you say to your children shows what your feelings are toward
them and what you think of them.

"exhorting"
: Greek (parakaleo) - to speak alongside another person.
: Encourage, exhort, admonish.

"encouraging"
: Greek (paramutheomai) - To council or give advice

A father should be a coach to their children, but this should be balanced with
grace and good council and encouragement.

Positive influence should be threefold compared to any negative reinforcement
applied to child.

# Application

* Be consistent
* Be affectionate
* Be real
