% Dealing with Demanding People - _Luke 6:27-30_
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

Hermoneutics has a lot to do with living life rightside up.

With the historical context in mind,

scriptural context _v22_: When people hate you because of my name.

How do I respond to those people who demand of me because of Christ?

# With an Unatural Love

_Luke 6:27_

"to you who hear"
: or "to you who want to hear"
: or "to you who are hearing"

_Respond to each situation the way Christ wants you to_

"love"
: agape
: present active tense

Agape was rarely used outside of the Bible. 

"enemies"
: "echthros"
: hostile ones

It's hard to understand how revolutionary this command was.

In the pagan world they were ruthless in their retaliation! If you stole
something they cut your hand off.

So when Jesus says this it was very different from modern practice.

_Matthew 4:43_

_Leviticus 19:18_

The Jews used this verse and redefined who their neighbor was (they changed it
to people they liked)

There is no way that we can love our enemy without the inner filling of the
Holy Spirit.

# With With Unatural Reactions

_Luke 6:29_

Context: that of being persecuted because of the name (our allegience) of
Christ

## This doesn't mean:

* you shouldn't defend yourself physically
* you shouldn't own a weapon for protection

_Luke 22:35_

What's happening in this passage? Jesus is saying, from this point forward I
want you to be careful! In this case Jesus wasn't saying to "turn the other
cheek"

_John 18:19_

Jesus here questions the reason of him being striked. He isn't rolling over and
"turning the other cheek"

If you  go through Acts you'll see many cases where Paul was treated falsely.
But Paul demanded to be treated fairly! He held his attackers accountable for
their actions.

In light of these passages

"cheek"
: "pareia" 
: word for cheek in the greek. 
: not used in this passage.

"cheek"
: "siagona"
: literally "jaw"
: can refer to an insult
: also refers to a full fledged punch in the face

One of the ways people persecuted the Christians was they took another person's
cloak - (it would snow in the winter).

_Romans 12:17-21_

When you don't respond with vengance. 

2 things this passage is talking about

1. you will respon in a positive way
1. "burning coals" - giving a bowl of coals for the use of matches (cause they
   didn't have matches back then)

This is talking about GRACE!!!

_Luke 6:30_

# With Unatural words

_Luke 6:28_

1. bless
1. pray

"mistreat"
: "eperazo"
: despitefully use you

"Bless"
: to speak well of
: "eulegetos"

What do you pray about? That they would see Christ in your life and be drawn to
him.

# Application

1. We are God's primary instrument to this world
1. You must be willing to be a selfless instrument of God
1. Agape can only be produced by Christ reigning in your life and the filling
   of the H.S

All the Beast needed was for someone to love him. It wasn't until Beauty kissed
the Beast that he changed and became a prince. This is the picture of a person
being restored.
