----
author: Dr. Byron Morgan
title: The true path to prosperity
-----

# Intro

Prosperity Gospel 
: God's blessing you is equivalent to material blessing
: the "name and claim" blessings 

What is "prosperity"?

prosperity
: condition of being successful or thriving, especially economic well-being

God will meet your physical needs, but often He gives you more than you need.

In order to gain you must give away.

God's "laws" are often in the form of a paradox.

_Proverbs 11:24-25_

_1 Corinthians 9:6_
: both verbs are in present tense
: Context Paul is showing how the Macedonians gave out of their poverty

You expect the preacher to say "Give to God! And He will bless you!". However,
God does not promise to bless you financially. 

So how is this different than the prosperity Gospel? Because God does promise
to bless us:

_Psalm 73:24_
_Proverbs 11:18_
_Isa 64:4_

What wouuld hinder God from blessing us? 

# 4 Benefits of God's harvest

## _1 Corinthians 9:7_ - Love from God

We know that God loves the world (_John 3:16)
And we know that He loves His children (_1 John 3:1)

Here however, God places a greater amount of love on a believer for an action
commited by man.

_1 Corinthians 8:3-4_

Remember that at this time Rome is plundering the land even more! Yet here the
Macedonians were begging to give Paul more!

_1 Corinthians 9:7_

"has purposed"
: to act from a predetermination rather than from an impulse

The harvest that we receive when we give cheerfully is God's love on us.

## _1 Corinthians 9:8-10_ - Generosity from God

God's ability is the starting point that allows us to be giving away to Him. It
is a worthwhile investment.

Does this mean material blessing?

The generous giver will always have plenty

As much as we are taxed by giving, we are refilled, and refreshed by divine
grace.

    --> God gives to us --|
    |                     |
    |                     |
    |-- We give to God <--|

## _1 Corinthians 9:11-13 - Glory of God

When you give generously you are showing evidence of the glory of God in your
life.

_Phillippians 4:18-19_

## _1 Corinthians 9:14-15 - Likeness to God

God wants to use you to bless them!

When you give you are being like Christ; demonstrating the grace given to us.

# Application

* Giving springs from a heart for Jesus - the larger the relationship the
  larger the gifts
* Attitude is __Crititcal__ in giving
* In God's mathematics the best way to increase a sum is to take from it.
