---
title: The Benefit of Pain - _Job 2:2-10_
author: Noah Harvey
---

# Introduction

The Book of Job's theme is not suffering but God; God is there and He's present
in our lives. 

The first argument of the Gospel is that "God is there"; God is in control!


* Job provides the longest part of the Bible where God speaks
* Job may have been the first inspired book of the Bible
* Job is where we have a more intamate view of the conversation between God and
    Satan.
* Job provides more hebrew words not found in the rest of scripture
* Job is diverse in writing style - it has its own genre
* Job wrestles with the questions about suffering and why it happens

Job was not __perfect__ but __blameless__. He dealt with the sin in his life and
did not let it linger. He did what was correct even when he sinned.

_Fearing God_ - a healthy fear of God.

"Skin for skin" - a colloquialism meaning Job would do anything to save his own
life.

Some think that Job is a fictional piece and not historical. If Job was
fictional then God is shown as a murderer.

The gift of life is from God. God cannot murder when He takes back what is
already His. 

If Job died of sickness we would not call God a murderer but sovereign. So how
can we say God is a murderer if He takes a life through other means? He can't be
labelled as such.

# Job's sores

TBA

# Job's Wife

Job is out at the city dump

"Curse God and die!" - sarcasm
She was allowing her emotions to control her.
Men can feel weak and vulernable at times and we need to have the emotional
support of our wives.

# Job's Rebuke

He doesn't call her a fullish woman. He says that she is having a temporary
lapse of judgement

"foolish" ("nebalah") - without discernment.

# Application

* Husbands and wives should not attack one another. Instead ask what God is
  trying to teach each other.

* In times of spiritual warfer one should expect Satan's attack

* In times of spiritual warfer one should remember that God is sovereign.

