% A sold out servant's Goal - Romans 13:8-10
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

God comes into our lives, at salvation, after having seen value in a old beat
up house, and He moves in and begins a divine renovation.

God doesn't want to just exist inside the house. The #1 goal of the Holy Spirit
is that he produce in each of us a renewed life.

Justification
* you are _declared_ (not made) righteous
* given at the point of salvation

After this we never hear anything else about the Christian life. 


Sanctification

* God begins to work His life into our lives
* It is the process of making us more Christ-like
* _Romans 6:19_

God doesn't want us to stay as private first class. He wants us to progress!

The closer we get to God the more we will reflect the Son just as the moon
reflects the Sun.

Background: 

Verse     Summary
--------  -----------------
12:1      With God
12:2      With the World
12:3-8    With one another
12:9-21   With everyone
13:1-7    With government
13:8-10   To godliness


# Love and Sanctification

v8. The debt of love

"Render to Ceaser what is Ceasers"

"Owe no one anything except to love each other"

Some use this to say that we are not to go into debt.

Passages on debt
Exodus 22:25
Leviticus 25:35-26
Nehemia 5:7
Ezekiel 22:12

God refused to give to a lone country man in the sabatical year - all debts
were cancelled during this year.

Deaut 15:10
Ps 37:21,26

"Give to him who asks, and he who wants to borrow from you". Obviously lending
and borrowing took place in both O.T and N.T.

However, we must be disciplined and wise with our debts and money

"owe"
: presentence
: with negative it means "stop continuing to owe debt"

The point here is:

* the Bible does not condemn debt, but uncontrolled spending, and continuous
  debt. 
* We all have this perpetual debt to one another and that we are to pay with
  love.
* Be honest.

What does owing love to another practically look like?

* Stopping your sexually imorality, for this is cheating on the one you love.
* Spending more time with my Savior
* Put your needs and wants on the alter to be a sold out servant

# Discharge of love

v9-10

After love fulfills the law, the author proves his point by quoting from the
mosaic law.

If we love someone we wont be committing adultery, or lie. We wont steal from
them.

# Application

* Sanctification is the process of God making us more holy.
  
* When we resist that we quench the holy spirit and frustrate him - we grieve
  him.
  
* You are obligated every day to love your fellow believers.
