% The Christian Final Review
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

3 little pigs is a spiritual analogy - we all have different materials to build
our house until the big bad wolf came and blew the house down.

The spiritual material we use will determine how well we will withstand the
spiritual attacks against us. 

The material we build our lives with will determine how we live but also how we
will be reviewed when we stand before Christ at the Judgement seat of Christ.

See _God's plan for the ages diagram_

This issue at the JSOC will __NOT__ be that of sin but that of the total
quality of the life that we have lived.

Christ has completed our salvation (Colossians 2:14)

"It is finished" 
: tatelestai
: it is paid in full, once for all

Therefore we not work for our salvation.

"judge"
: not a one dimensional word: in a court of law
: to evaluate the quality of an object
: to measure the moral standing of another's character

Christ's judging will be that of the quality of another's life.

> We often have a mentality that when we die we go into a nirvana. However in
> fact we enter into a new life.  Genesis 2:7, we became a living soul - however
> the residence that we live in will change when we die.

_This is reason to obstain from sexual sin!_ I am an eternal being, the vessel
I live in is simple a temporary tent! 

2 Corinthians 5:6

"ambition"
: fond of honor, eagerness, earnestness

Our highest honor should be that of being pleasing to the Lord. 
__Keep having an eternal perspective__

Why  should we be pleasing to the LORD?

"all" - all believers. The scripture makes it clear that there will be a
separate judgement for unbelievers

John 5:29 ("deeds" is not in the original text)

Those who do good and those who do bad - the timing of these judgements is
determined by the Gap principle (like distant mountains).

"Thronos"
: the great white throne judgement

"Bema"
: judgement seat of Christ
: raised platform from which an old umpire would sit and reward those who won
  the game
: a judge who is about to pass judgement (see pilot who made the announcement
  of Christ in Matthew 27)
: The place where Christ (not the Father or Holy Spirit) is to judge the
  raptured saints.

The purpose of the judgement seat is to bring recompense (or receive back what
is their own). To determine what kind of rewards and authority one will come
back with during the millennium... It is the ultimate review.


__If this is the reward why should I care? The millenium will end and then
eternity will begin. Are we not all going to be equal in heaven?__

"appear"
: "phaneroo"
: to make manifest, like clothes inside out

1 Corinthians 4:5

Good works being divided into "wood, hay and stubble" vs "precious stones"

"work"
: it's an elastic word
: used of an occupation
: achievements
: a moral character in a person
: always the quality of a person's life. 

One can do good works and still have diseased heart - how can we know that our
hearts are in the right place if our heart is deceitful? 

1 Corinthians 3:13 - the fire will test the quality of each man's work.

There are 6 objects mentioned in 1 Corinthians 3.

The constative aorist tense can be viewed as an action in its entirety

Our judgement is like that of graduating college - we should aim for
"valedictorian".

__Why should we care?__

2 categories 

* Destructible by fire
  
  * wood (D)
  * hay (F)
  * stubble (W - for worthless)
* Indestructible by fire

  * gold (A)
  * silver (B)
  * precious stones (C+)

Our life is not measured based on quality not quantity.

"Exam in progress" could be hung over every man's life. Are you taking 
this seriously?

# Application
