% That Big, Bright, Beautiful Tomorrow - The Millenial Kingdom
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

John Lennin's _Imagine_ a dream not to be fulfilled until Christ's second
coming.

Isaiah

# Who will populate the Millenial Kingdom

Revelation 19

Glorified believers

Living Jews and Gentiles (_Matthew 24_)

Daniel 12:1

Revelation 20:4 - those who do not worship the beast during the tribulation

# Events During the Millenium

## Condition of Economy. 

Isaiah 65:21-23 - the productivity will increase. 

## Condition of Physical Life

* Isaiah 11:6-9. The curse will be reversed (not removed). There will still be
  people who have the sin nature. Death will still be present, but changed.
* There will be a harmony between the animal kingdom and the human kingdom.
* Sickness and deformity will be removed. Is 35:3-6
* Longgevity of life will be restored (a 100 year old person will be considered
  a youth)

## Condition of Government 

* a Theocracy Jesus will be the king of the whole earth. Isa 2:4; 9:6-7
* global peace
* believers will serve in some judgemental capacity in our glorified bodies.
  (Revelation 20:6)
* The Hebrew people will have a special place in the kingdom - the promise of
  the Abrahamic covanent will be fulfilled. Jeremiah 30:3. David will be the
  king of Israel (a prince to the king of kings and the Lord of Lords)

## Condition of Spiritual

Righteousness will cary the news of the day. We will experience the fullness of
the Holy Spirit like never before.

Acts 2:17 - in the last days, Peter says, if you remember Joel that you could
have that today but it's just a silloette that is to come during the millienial
kingdom. God will pour out his spirit like never before.

## Condition of Heavens

There will be a type of protective canopy that will guard against the even
brighter sun.

Isaiah 30:36

## Condition of the Devil

Revelation 20:7 - Satan will be released after the millenium to mount up armies
against Jerusalem.

Why would God allow this last revolt? 

  1. it shows that a perfect environment will not change man's hear. Betterment
     is not the same as conversion
  1. it shows that the universal knowledge of God in the world is not the same
     as the personal knowledge of the savior

# Application

1. God Controls - he hasn't lost control and has top authority in this world.
   near sightedness is the lack of ability to see the distance. "Let's stick to
   the practical" is spiritual nearsightedness! God wants us to see the big
   picture.
1. God cares so deeply. He is genuinely interested in this world and its needs.
   He wants to give us a beautiful gift. Like getting a good report from a
   doctor should we not also want to hear a good report from our savior! We
   should pursue Him!
