% A Triumph of a New Covanent
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

There are 8,810 promises total in the Bible
7487 are from God

God is into promises becuase he wired us to have a pre-disposition to needing
hope and without hope we are lifeless; often commiting suicide.

We can only live 1 second without hope, 3 days without water, 8 minutes without
air.

God is not just if He cannot keep his promises.

We have several covanents in the Bible - mainly the old and new. There is a new
cavanent that we live under today.

Today coincides to the time that Christ went to the cross. Let us not forget
that what he did had a lot to teach us of future things and a new hope!

First let's god to the triumphant entry

# Two Triumphant Entries

Zechariah 9:9-10

v9 was a prophecy given 500 years before the actual event. Jesus came as:

* as king
* as just 
* with salvation
* in humility
v10 is a prophecy of our lord's second coming Jesus will come as:

* as a king
* bring justice
* salvation and deliverance
* to make war and then peace

The fact that v9 occured 500 years before it happened and was fulfilled then we
have assurance that v10 will happen! God did it once, he'll do it again! 

We will come out of the grave because Christ rose! There is a connection.

The gap principle there are sometimes statements that look like two mountains
close together but the closer you get they begin to seperate.

John 5:29 - there are two ressurections, one for the judgement of believers and
unbelievers.

One event cancels out another event


# The intro to the first Lord's supper

Luke 22:19-20

The context that precides this verse is very important. The Lord's Supper is
predicated on the Passover.

It was the delivery of Israel out of slavery of Egypt. This was a picture of
our delivery from the slavery of sin!

"Rememberance ... covanent" we have a picture here that the Lord has made a vow
to each of us!

What was the vow? It was our redemption!

## Solemnly Remember our Redemption

Every day, not just when we take communion.

There is a hint in this passage: "for you"

"for"
: "huper"
: in place of
: instead of

Exodus 12 they are to find an unblemished lamb for 14 days and then they were
to sacrifice it. It was to be a pet! They were to attache a lamb to themselves
and then have pain when it is sacrificed.

Substitutionary attonement. Christ was our substitute.

We need to have our minds and hearts marinated in this truth!

In the OT the HS didn't indwell the saints. However today He does!

#

Hebrews 8:6-12
Jeremiah 31 has the same message and has more _ than any other passage in the OT

Theme of Hebrews is: "better things", the promises of the new are better than
the promises of the old.

"I will write them on their hearts" - a reference to the indwelling of the HS

Have the Jews experienced the complete new covanent? Well, those who are
saved...

It's like buying a house, you may be in it, but you still have the debut over your head.
In the same manner, the OT covanent could not rid man of the guilt. 

Luke 22:16-18

I shall not eat of "it" until the Lord comes back again! This is the
fulfillment of the new covanent. Jesus is talking about here of how we will
feast with him in the new heaven and earth.

During the milleniuum rain we will have 

# Application
