% How to have a quiet  time - _Psalm 1_
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# How To have a Quiet Time

## Paul Adams

Work, family, God were his priorities (it happens even to successful business men).

How am i going to revive my relationship? 

40 days ... Power Therman

Meditate on the word day and night - __BE CONSISTENT!__

Does his first thing when he gets into the office.

How do I make application to my work and live what I'm learning in the morning?

Key is to be dependent on God and disciplined.

Put your self in a position to grow

## Buddy Dithardt

Listens to Christian sermon on the way in to work.

Rest of quiet time is done first thing - typically over what he's teaching that
Sunday.

## Pete Lawrence

Memorizes scripture throughout the day.

"Remember me" phone app.

Reads through bible in a year using different translations.

Blueletterbible.org for Bible study.

Basically he's built a library.

He uses first thing in work to pray for people.

## Debbie Morgan

Reads daily devotions (11) that she varies through. 

* Our daily bread
* Max Lucado
* Streams in the Desert

_God doesn't speaking to her every time_

Quiet of time is different than (big) prayer time. This is where you personally
get with Him.

You have to make time for that!

If the same verse keeps coming to her repeatedly.

Anticipate the quiet time!

# Intro

* This is a lyrical Psalm
* After the proclamation of God's truth they would sing a song 

"God's greatest hits"

In our culture poetry rymns phonetically - in the hebrew culture it rymns
logically. It's poetry that's not confined to a langugae!

Parallelism
: 2 statements where the latter builds on the prior

_Psalm 1_ It is a call to a daily communion with God!

This is a formula for a Christian to be blessed!
 
# The Character and Attitude of the Godly

"blessed"
: "asre"
: happy or joyful that comes to a person once bestowed with a favor from the
superior.

We must resist  the thinking of the world.

_Psalm 1:1_

A Godly person is not affected  by the attitude, thought pattern of the world..
He doesn't even causually consider the thoughts of the world.

_OH THE JOY OF THE ONE WHO DOESN"T EVEN CASUALLY CONSIDER THE THOUGHTS AND
VALUES OF THE WORLD_

"walk"
: a term suggesting 

"counsel"
: comes from the hebre word that means a definite firm planned definite

"stand"
: idea of coming and taking one's stand

"path
: a marked out path a certain and precise way of life

Imagine coming to a window that shows something that you're attracted  to. You
first pass by, then stop and consider, and then go in and think.

A bad example: Lot. He moved towards Sodom, pitched his tent near Sodom, and eventually moved into Sodom.

It begins with thoughts of "That sounds right to me".

_2 Chronicles 22:3_

# The means to experience that happiness

_Psalm 1:2_

WHat do I do to have happiness?

1. He hungers for God's declaration

He has a sense of urgency for God's truth.

If your diving and you lose your oxygen tank then you would swim to someone
that has oxygen and tell them in desparity that you need air. 

We live in a world with air we cannot breathe! We breath the oxygen of God's
word.

There's nothing deliting in mediating on dos and don's. 

"law"
: "torah" to guide, instruct, to regulate.

You can't take away the dos and donts of scripture! You must consider them in
the context in which they were given.

One of the blessings of this is strength in the midst of life's trials.

How do I delight in the Word? We delight in food - we should crave as a baby
for the word of God (1 Peter 2:2). (Hebrews 6) - you aught to be craving steaks
but you're still drinking milk.

Why do some people have a good appetite and others don't? "This book will keep
you from sin, and this sin will keep you from this book?"

You should be praying "LORD! INCREASE MY APPETITE!"

You don't read the letters of other people because you don't know them!

> "I put my identity in what Christ says, who He thinks I am and who I know
> that He says I am."
> - Trevor Lawrence

"meditate"
: To wisper, to utter, to read in an undertoan.
: often used in the context of animals. Cattle lowing, pigeon cooing (constantly)

Is there any sin for me to avoid?
Is there any promise for mto clan
Is there any Victory to gain?
Blessings I can enjoy? 
Is there any truth I have never seen
What is the main thing I can learn?


# How to remain constant

_Psalm 1:3_

This person avoids the adversaries destruction.

God is often more concerned with who a person is than what they do.

Doing naturally follows from planting.

1. Planted - fortified, stable, rooted, solid and strong
1. Fruitful - production naturally folows being planted and growing
1. Unwithered - even during days of difficulty, the treelike soul and undaunted

We may be in the desert then you'll be like a tree that is planted by a river!

Qualities of a wicked man

1. He is driven 
1. He is doomed

_Hosea 4_ my people are destroyed for a lack of knowledge.

# Application

1. How am I growing?
1. How would I grade my personal quiet time?
1. Do I long to hear from God?
