% God's Plan for the Future - Part 1
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

* We often want to be prepared and look ahead in our lives to see what is
  coming.
* There are more movies being made about the end of the world today.
* When you study prophecy you are able to see what is going to happen; it is
  history prewritten.

Why are there those who do not preach escotology today?

  * Avoiding contraversial subjects - 1 Tim 2:14
  * We want to keep things "practical" and simple; basic.

Reasons to study prophecy:

  * Prophecy is replete throughout the Bible. More than half of the Bible is
    predictive.
  * Prophecy answers the difficult questions in the Bible:
  * Prophecy encourages patient waiting. James 5:7-8
  * Prophecy puts everything into perspective.
  * Prophecy is to have a purifying effect on the life of the believer 1 Peter
    1:13, 4:7

# Dangers of studying prophecy

  * The danger of setting dates and making dogmatic declarations Acts 1:6-7,
    Matthew 14:36. Many people feed on the emotions of men.
  * Making the study of prophecy an end of itself. 2 Peter 3:13. Remember that
    we are preparing for the return of Christ - that is the purpose of
    prophecy; to develop our relationship with Christ.

# Survey of Events

## The Church Age

* Postscedes the Mosaic age
* God is putting Israel on the shelf.

Church is refered to as mystery - but something that which has been hidden in
the past but is now revealed

Matthew 16:18a

## The Rapture

A Biblical reality
1 Thes 4:17

"caught up"
: harpazo
: to catch up; snatch away; carry off by force

## The Judgement Seat of Christ

2 Cor 5:10

* For the believers only
* The issue will be that of rewards; not of sin or salvation
* What is the basis of rewards? Not the accumulation of good works, but the sum
  total of the quality of one's life

## The Tribulation

Matthew 24:21

1. Seven year period on earth will occur simltaneously with believers
   receivering their rewards in heaven
1. Satan will be unrestrained and established his "unholy" trinity
1. Satan's right hand man called the "beast" will be in the place of God the
   Son.
1. False prophet will counteract

## The Campaign of Armegeton

Rev 16:13-16

## The Second Advent

Matthew 24:29-31

## The Judgement of the Nations and Israel

Matthew 25:31

## The Millenium 

Revelation 20:4

Even during Christ's 1000 year reign there will still be those who reject
Christ.

## The Great White Throne Judgement

Rev. 20:11-15
John 5:22

Jesus will be there at the throne

## The New Heaven and The New Earth

Rev 21-22

The Glory of God begins in the Garden. Sin mars the garden. Throughout the
earth God is revealing his Glory. We are told now we are the temples of the
Holy spirit, and then the glory will come to the earth.

Isn't the sin nature going to be irradicated when Christ comes? There will
only be ones who

Paradise lost; Paradise gained (heaven).

# Application

* The purpose of all this is to point people to Christ. Jesus is the key to
  understanding all of Scripture.
* Have a greater faith; Christ is coming back!
