% The Anti-Christ 
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

Why do we study prophecy?

* 1/3 is the Bible
* the eternal perspective

If you wanted to be a dictator of a country how would you do it?

For one person to become a dictator the situation must be right for that to
happen. Take Hitler for example. Germany was in a depression in the 1930s.
Small businesses were collapsing and the economy was in shambles. At that point
Hitler walks into the scene and says "I can help you" and thus became the 3rd
Reich. 

> "The surest way to overthrow a social order is to debauch the currency"
> - Linen

When the Roman Empire came about there was Cesear worship; when Hitler came
about he came to power very quickly. 

"The Roman Peace" - the dictator of a conquered land was thrown out and
replaced with something that they had never scene before. But before long they
instituted Cesear worship. People were required to burn inscense and worship; the 
same with Hitler.

With unrest on the rise there is a rise of another world dictator.

The Bible makes it clear that the Holy Roman Empire will rise again and the
Anti-Christ will hold to that clout


## Anti Christ Passages

1 John 2:18 - we are really in the last hour.
1 John 2:22 - the liar is the one who denies the 
1 John 4:3 - 
2 John 1:7 - 

5 Times anti Christ is mentioned. Only once is "the Anti-Christ" is mentioned

The Son of Perdition, Man of Lawlessness, The Beast

Revelation is the revived Roman Empire.

It is a description of the Anti-Christ

# Characteristics of AntiChrist

## A Gentile from amoung the nations.

Rev 13:1

"Out of the sea"
: here this refers to a Gentile 
: proof- Rev 17:15

Possibly the last Gentile ruler

Daniel 7 Context: God gives Daniel a vision of 3 other nations that were to
come :

  * Medo-Persians
  * Greeks
  * Romans
The best refered to in Rev 13 is the same in Daniel 7. 

## A world Dictator

10 horns and 10 diadem

Stephenos
: victory

Diadem 
: King

There will be a 10 nation confederacy in charge of the world. But there are
only 7 heads.  There will be 3 kings that will push back on the Anti-Christ who
will be "taken care of"

How will this person's power come about so quickly? He has charisma.

## With a Beast Like Nature

This is reference to a person not a nation.

  * leopard - Greece (4 heads were for 4 generals)
  * Bear - Medes
  * lion - Babylon
Each used in Daniel 7:2. These animals represent 3 nations: Babylon, Medes, and
Greeks

The Anti-Christ will have features just like each one of those mentioned in Daniel 7.

  * lion - class
  * bear - power
  * leopard - 4 heads were fo

Stately elegant manor, powerful and swift in order to seize power. There will be a

Dragon - satan

# One World Religion

The Anti-Christ will establish a one world religion. They will worship the
beast. The false prophet will come into the scene and "take care of the
abomination of desolation".  The Anti-Christ will sign.

The abomination of descolation

# One World Government

Daniel 7:23 the fourth beast (kingdom) 

Roman Empire = Roman Empire
Ten Horns = ten kings
little horn from ten = anti-christ

Why does God give the person authority? We don't know, but it is for His glory
- including Satan - which are for His glory

A prophecy was given 3600 years ago was fulfilled in 1930. Never think for a
moment that what is in revelation won't come about.

# How it will happen 
 
* Rapid Communication
* It would require rapid transit
* Missile warfare could be a great tool in the hands of a world dictator

# Economic Unification

No one will buy and sell without this person's person.

What will cause this man's popularity? What appears as a fatal wound which is
healed. The false prophet (a religious person) will be given "black magic". The
influence of the false prophet.

# The number of the beast

Every person who is a worshiper of the beast will have this mark inorder to buy
and sell.

The Hebrew and Greek languages have a numberical value system - the name of the
anti-Christ will "equal" this number.

# Application

When we can go back to Daniel 7,9 and Revelation 13. We can look at the
timeline and get confidence, boldness and peace. This doesn't me we should be
passive.
