% Holding Your Ground in 2019 - Jeremiah 23:25-27
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

Times have changed

There are people who do not have good training!

_2 Peter 2:1_
_2 Peter 3:16_

_1 John 1:1_

"to handle"
: to feel, examine and scrutinize

__Carefully handle the word of God__

We have been blessed according to (not out of) his riches. We can crash
spiritually if we listen to the wrong teaching of the Word of God.

Our focus must be on the unchanging word of God! We must safeguard our lives on
the erroneous doctrine out there today.

_Jeremiah 23:25-27_

What's the difference between today's doctrine and our day? Things that are out
of the word of God but is out of context.

# Be aware of compromised Christianity

_Jeremiah 23:30-31_

If you lead people to believe that God is something he doesn't say he is are
you really helping them?

_Be careful that you don't have a hyper-critical or contrarian attitude or
spirit_ 

We are not "fighting fundamentalists"! 

However, our society is willing to swallow anything that doesn't sound
diabolical or heretical. If one is sincere they are sure to be heard.

A clerk learns what a counterfeit is by studying what a real dollar is. 

One of the dangers of being a Bible Church is that we become complacent, ho-hum.

Our oxygen for living is the word of God! Without it we cannot survive. The
older we get the more we should be uncomfortable with being comfortable.

_Jeremiah 23:16-17_

We hear among believers: "God isn't like that!" or "God wouldn't do that!"

Most of the time counterfeit sounds positive! For example (Rob Bell)

Perspicuity
: The clearity of Scripture

> "We must look for true truth"
> - Francis Chafer

_Jeremiah 23:28-29_

# Perfer Hard Truth To Appealing Lies

When you go to the doctor you want to hear the hard truth.

"Build Character and Faith not Comfort!" 

_1 Peter 1:23_

Devine combustion:

1. HS - oxygen
1. Word of God - heat
1. Human Spirit - fuel

Like a fireplace the Word of God can burn us!

_Isaiah 6:1-2_

"Seraph"
: firery ones

_Revelation 1:17-14_
_Hebrews 12:28-29_

God is like a hammer

_Jeremiah 23:23-26_

# Keep God's omnipresence in mind.

_Jeremiah 23:22_

# Application

1. Do not underestimate the transforming power of God's word. Keeping in mind
   we do not go around trying to fix people
1. Pray for a insatiable hunger for God's word
1. Ask God to use His Word to Complete his transforming Work to your life
1. Stand your ground when it comes to God's Truth. Realize that you live for
   the applause for only One and that is is better to stand for truth then be
   rejected.
