% A Promise Keeping God
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Introduction

When acceptance of others is based on legalism it produces:

  * judgemental behavior
  * psudo spirituality
  * false sense of guilt
  * destroys personal freedom to becom what God wants the Christian to become
This is a sad commentary on many people today - and the reason why many young
audults avoid going to Church.

5 building blocks for harmony

    1. God's Word
    1. God's Promises
    1. God's Acceptance
    1. Obedience
    1. Acceptance
> ...to take to one's self, to grant one access to one's heart, to take into
> friendship.
> - Wuest

# Context

## Paul's mandate to the Jews and Gentiles

Romans 14:1
Romans 15:7 - keep on accepting one another (present imperative tense)

Christians were fighting over eating meat offered to idols - and that all
believers are still under the Sabath.

If someone disagrees with you you can always find something to critisize. 
Therefore because of this disagreement they started backbighting and
quarrelling. The rivalries were between both Jews and Gentiles.

## Christ's Example

Collosians 3:12-17

The parable of the unforgiving servant.

The king represents Jesus; and then the parable represents our relationship
with Christ.

What resemblence exists between forgiving and accepting others.

# Be Encouraged By

## God is a promise keeping God.

It's God's word that allows us to discover and digest the promises of God.

Romans 15:8

God's fulfillment in His promises make Him trustworthy. Hebrews 6:10-17
God's promises are an anchor - and should be the focus of our lives.

God's word is like a knee brace.

## The Evidence of my inclusion in God's redemptive plan

Romans 15:9

God is reminding us here the the Gentiles were included in the plan of God.

Mercy is God not giving you what you do deserve.

Do not lose this sense of "I have recieved the mercy of God!" in opposition to
'I was saved at the age of 9 and life is good."

Like getting of of a speeding ticket the Gentiles were relieved because they
recieved the mercy of God.

Psalm 32:2

God is saying to the Jews: "remember"

## The Hope of the Holy Spirit of God

Stop complaining and whining and get your focus onto the hope of the Spirit of
God and then the Holy Spirit will "turn up the lights to see the Glory of God".
