% What Every Father Needs 
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

Do father's have any impact in the life of their children? Absolutely!
See the following: 

  * 82% of studys of father's bonding since 1980s has found overwhelming
    evidence for this.
  * having a loving and nutring father was as important as having a nuturing
    mother.
  * Father-love was a stronger contributor to child wellbeing outcomes
  * A father's active play style 
In short... having a loving father has a major impact on the compasion
capabilities of children

Father's there's no doubt that you have a major role when it comes to your
children.

One of the most staggering statistics: 
    
    > 90% of the inmates claim to have had no father in the home.
    > - A Southern State Penitentary

__THERE IS NO JOB MORE IMPORTANT THAN BEING A FATHER__

3 vital relationships for fathers!

Men more than women tend to live in isolation. We tend to ride off into the
sunset because we don't need anyone....this is wrong thinking!

Abide by the following and you will be a great man:

    * You will be a godly man
    * The father God intends you to be

__Who are the men in your life?__

# Every man needs a Paul

The greatest calling we have as leaders is an authentic and Godly lifestyle. 

Sometimes we see believers that model the tattered and ugly lifestyle. And then
we tend to gravitate towards that...

1 Thes 1:6

"imitator"
: mimotai
: to mimmick

Even in their tribulation they modeled Godliness.

"example"
: tupos
: an impression

* 2 Thes 3:9
* 1 Cor 11:1

Paul new that we are emulators by nature. We see someone we like and we try and
emulate that.  We are to be conformed to the image of Christ.

> "he walked in the way of his father Asa"
> 2 Chronicles 20:32

1 Kings 15:11

If you study Asa that everything he did, in almost every crisis, he did what
was pleasing to God. Jehosephat. 

2 Chronicles 17:1-6 - both father and son followed in the steps of David.

The Paul: A man who would mentor us, nuture us and encourage our growth.

"lives"
: psuche
: soul

Paul was saying "we didn't just come to impart knowledge; but to change your
life!"

We came and spent time with you, walked with you. We opened our souls and let
you look in.

4 major tasks that a man would need:

  1. Defining his dream
  1. finding your vocation
  1. new and intimate relationships
  1. finding a mentor
  (Dr. Daniel Levinson)

__We need mentors!__ 

"_becomes_ like his teacher"
: gentomai
: The idea of a process, the way that the teacher thinks.

# Every man needs a Barnabas 

"son of encouragement"

Every man needs a true, deep friend. Someone who enters into your life and
share your life.

2 Cor 7:6, Paul was depressed! But God sent another person - Titus (Paul's
spiritual child) - to come and comfort Paul.

2 Tim 4:9 Paul is saying I need these men to come and minister to me. We all
have prison experiences. We find ourselves in them and there is no way out.

James 5:16

exhomologeo
: to confess out

> O the comfort, the inexpressible comfort of feeling safe with a person.
> Having neither to weight thoughts Nor measure words but pouring them right
> out just as the are. Chaff and grain together
> Dinah Craik, "Friendship"

Men who will gently reprove you. What is wrong in his worst enemy will be wrong
in his best friend - because you are harsh with one but graceful to the other. 

Psalm 141:5 - oil apon my head.

A true friend isn't a spiritual mobster who is aimed to settling a score. _A
good friend is like an EMT_

Galations 6:1

Restore one another in a spirit of gentleness - the restoration of a broken
bone.

"restore"
: katarizo

# Every man needs a Timothy 

The things of which you have heard 

2 Tim 2:2

__Are you building into the children of your home?__

_Father's you are responsible for leading your home spiritually_

Deuteronomy 6:1-2

What's in the well comes up in the bucket!

Mountain goats live in a procarious environment. Young mountain goats are very
playful. One mistake and they fall to their death. The nannies tend to their
young from the downhill side to block their fall. This is discipleship!

# Questions

_How do I get these?_ How do I get a mentor, or find a friend?
