% Romans 12:16  
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

No parent wants to hear their child misbehaving at school.

Your reputation is important! What other people think if you does matter!

God is concerned about our reputation as His children.

1 Peter 2:11

> "Keep your behavior excellent amoung the Gentiles"

"excellent"
: kolos 
: beautiful or attractive

Sons look like fathers because of the DNA connection between the two. 

It is God's DNA that He is planting within each of us. God wants our reactions
to look like Jesus!

God is very concerned with how we act. 

_We are not talking about whether they like or love you_ You should care about
whether they respect the Savior and in order for them to do that they must
respect you!

## Context

Jews and Gentiles are now living with each other. Both have different
convictions.

Romans 12:17

Paul is using a modern style of writing known as parenesis.

Is Paul talking about:

Believers and believers? or Believers and non-believers?

When someone is hurt: 

> "Don't get mad, get event"

How are we to respond?

# Respond like God's child, not Satan's

What has Satan been doing since he's been kicked out of heaven? He's trying to
get even!

We will care more about our Lord's reputation than what happens to us.

_Do we get even or do we extend grace!?_

Titus 2:7

_Does your life outside the Church adorn the doctrine of God?_

When we don't respond in the manner of the world it shines such a great light!
It's attractive! 

It's like going to the flee market who claims that he's filthy rich but argues
and haggles with the people and is nasty and angry. And you walk out of the
flea market and you say "I thought you were filthy rich! You don't act like
it!"

Romans 12:16

"Do not be wise"
: present active
: "stop being over estimating yourself"

All verbs are participles but the last sentance isn't?

When we want to lash back why is it we want to get even? It's pride! Because
we've been hurt and feel we have to right the wrong.

"Respect what is right in the sight of all men"

Greek resent participle which literally means "taking previous thought"

pronoeo
: to think before


"pro" 
: before

"no" 
: to think or provide

When the Holy Spirit helps us to see past our pride and ego then we are able to
think before we respond.

# Respond Strategically not Emotionally

We have moved from a "thinking" Christianity to a feelings Christianity.

"All I need to do is to tap into some feeling or emotion and I'll be able to
live the Christian life victoriously!" This puts your feelings on the same
level as the Word of God.

The feelings mentality of life comes from relativistic philosophy that says the
purpose of life is what you get out of it.

Your emotions will tell you a lie!

```
   ------      -------      ----------
 /  Fact | <- | Faith | <- | Feelings |
/--------|    |-------|    |----------|
```

# Be a Peace Maker when Possible

Romans 12:18

When we are talking about peace maker we are not talking about someone who is a
mediator.  Instead we are talking about someone who refuses to give into their
emotions.

Galations 5:13-17

When we lash out it is not of God!

James 3:17: the fruit of the spirit in action.

"Wisdom from above"
: the control of the Holy Spirit

Some of you just need to suck it up and move on! Why can't we just be gracious!
And respond strategically?!

The Holy Spirit badly wants every believer to respond strategically: to speak
before they respond.

Remember the centurion who observed Christ die? He said "Surely this was the Son of God".

So how do I do this?

1. Walk by the Spirit
1. Rmoans 12:19 (do not take revenge)

    What are some ways we take revenge? Physically it's obvious however, most
    common is emotionally (we withhold love from the person). God takes care of
    his children, whether now or later.

    A father will not let his children hurt one another.
1.  
1.

# Be courageous when necessary

There are times when it is impossible to be at peace with people

1. When peace comprimises people (Galations 1:6-10 )
1. When it  comes to a  comprismised life (Matthew 10:34)
1. When peace obstructs Godliness (2 Corinithians 6:16-7:1) David didn't go back to the palace to apologize
1. When

# Application

1. It can't be done without Christ 
1. It can't be done without the empowering of the HS
1. 
