% Pride-less Soldout Servants - _Romans 12:3_
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

Examples from the Bible where God chose someone and their response was "I am
incapable and unqualified". 

As you become a servant of God you may dance between the fine line of humility
on the Holy Spirit and pride.

This call to surrender is not a call in a vacuum. This call to serve is in
light of the previous 8 chapters regarding:

* our identity
* our salvation
* our grace
* our blessings

In context: do not let your minds be conformed to the way of  thinking of the
rest of the world but let your mind be transformed by the Word of God.  Total
submission to Christ is the natural thing to do in response to the salvaion we
have from Christ.

Do not think more highly of yourself! God never gives us a prohibition that is
not a proclivity of our lives.

God won't give us a rule for the sake of giving a rule.

Greek it is a negative present tense: "Stop doing this".

"mind"
: phromeo
: derivatives are used 4 times in this passage.

Our old nature is a "me-first" nature. It wants my:
* way 
* oppinion
* thoughts

David Meyers, "The inflated self". 800,000 teens surveyed. Only 2% thought they
were below average in leadership capabilities, and only 1% thought they were
hard to get along with.

God cannot use a man greatly before he breaks him.

# Recognize Your Prideful Tendencies

This is paradoxical: it's our pride that prevents us from seeing our prideful
tendencies. We say "there's nothing wrong with me!" 

The more we have it in ourselves the more we dislike it in others.

> "Search thy own heart
> What paineth thee
> In Others, in thyself may be"
>  - John Greenlief Whither

Why is it that we have blindspots? It's because of our pride. If it wasn't for
our old nature we would see everything as he would see it!

__This is the one sin that God is the most sensitive about in His children__

Because if you want to be used as a sold out servant there is NOTHING that will prevent your usefulness.

_Proverbs 6:16-17_
_1 Peter 5:5_

The word pride in the greek means "To show one's self above".

God apposes those who think that they are above others!

"Apposed" 
: is a military term

God will stand in opposition to you when you are being prideful!

_Do you not think that God is struck in the heart when we stand and act like
Satan?_

# Recognize The Standard for Evaluation

"sos"
: safe

"phineo"
: mind

""
: ranked as a civic virtue in classical Greek

We are not to think lowly of ourselves, but we are to think of ourselves with a
safe-mind. 

This is according to the amount of faith God gives us. This doesn't say that
some people are given more faith.

"measure"
: or standard

The same standard of faith is assigned to everyone! 

_James 1:16-17_ - why would we be decieved? Because of pride. We don't bring
anything to the service that we do for God.

_measure yourself by the cross!_

Our standard of measuring ourselves with Christ.

> "God works move inspite of your than because of you"

When one compares himself to Christ he will then realize that he has nothing to
offer!

_Galations 2:20_

# Recognize Your Equality

_Romans 12:4-5_

How we exhibit pride in the Church

* I don't need the church!
* When they think they're unteachable.
* That think their oppinion is superior

_James 3:15_

Demonic, is selfish-ambition. When we say "my way"

How should I think of myself? 

> I am no better than the usher team, the deacon, ANYONE! The moment we think
> we're better than anyone else the moment we're in trouble.

# Application

* Be open to your spouse
* Ask a trusted friend to hold you accountable.
* Most importantly, ask the Holy Spirit to reveal the seed of pride in your
  life.
