% When you feel like giving up - Romans 12:11-11
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

Believers often start out with a burning passion for Christ, but on that
spiritual journey something happens and when the stresses in life come we
settle for sprititual complacency.  Not talking about the believer who limps
between carnality and psudosprituality.

We're talking about the "professional Christians" who are Matthew 15:8 people.

What does the apostle Paul have to say when it comes to giving up.

v10: Outdo one another!

Love is self sacrificing!

# A passionate

"not lagging"
: to be slothful or lazy

"diligence"
: psoude
: it has the basic idea of haste

Ecc 9:9 - do not be slothful about serving the LORD

Eph 6:5 - wherever God plants you you're to do it as if he were standing right
there. You are to do it for Him.

"spirit"
: this speaks of a fire! A passion for the LORD! Fervent is a heart attitude!

"fervent"
: to boil!

Literal translation:

"In zeal not slothful, in spirit burning, in serving the Lord."

God understands our humanity! If we stray from this mindset then don't stay
there! 

> "If you are to busy for God then you are to busy then God intended you to be"
> - Howard Hendricks

Revelation 2:1

There is a Church that taught the Word of God the "right way" but they were not
white hot after God.

"repent"
: change your direction

Revelation 3:14-22 

Satan's great tool is not to see one be an unbeliever but to be inoculated from
the real disease!

"I am knocking at the door! And if you do what I ask we will have this hot
banquet and a firery relationship!"

"Life is tough at best, handle it with prayer!"

We've moved from a thinking Christianity to a feeling Christianity today. We must 
move from this area that isn't easy, that doesn't feel good but we need to trust Him
and walk with Him through the tough times.

Luke 17:7-10 - don't just do what God has commanded you to do.

Potential side effect is "I've been there, I've done that. I know that I've
been taught"

# Fighting the Urge to Give Up

What has caused your jets to be cooled?

Romans 12:11

"rejoice in hope"
: Let your hope give you joy

Christ is returning remember this always! Live as it is true!

# Application

1. recognize your struggle
1. renew your heart
1. Realize your calling
