% Why We Server - _Romans 12:1_
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

Parable of the pig and the chicken (total sacrifice vs a contribution).

Christian life is more of joining a softball team than a life insurance policy
(you must be all in)

_Romans 12:1_ 

# The basis: 

> "Therefore I urge you brethren by the mercies of God"

Key words: therefore, mercies

"Therefore" 
: points back to the previous chapters (the great doctrinal chapters preceding)
: used in 3 pivital therefores (5:1 - salvation, 8:1 - assurance, 12:1 -
dedication) of which this is the greatest

1:19 - 3:20 - all are guilty
3:21 - 5:21 - the salvation by faith
6:1  - 8:39 - set free from power of sin adn death and the law
9:1  -11:36 - Israels rebellion and salvation

We have been declared right before God - we are no longer under sin's power.

"mercies"
: all of the above point to the mercies of God.

Story of German who carried American soldier across the battle field towards
the American troops.

Only difference in this story: Christ took the bullet for us.

> "THIS IS THE GREATEST MERCY OF GOD! - OUR SALVATION" 

The point of the call is that we serve God becase we want to give back to Him.
Not that we must serve out of obligation.

# The Extent

"present"
: "paristemi"
: to set beside or place at one's disposal

Why does he say "bodies" instead of "heart"? Because of the dualistic Greek
philosophy. The idea was that the body was evil as long as your spirit is in
the right.

Body is used here to denote a totality of giving one's self to God.

You may say "you don't want my body! It stinks!" and God says "That's right,
I want all of you".

The call of grace is the once for all sacrifice to God. 

You must say "MY LIFE IS NOT MY OWN!" You don't have any rights because your
life now belongs to Christ.

_Luke 14:30-35_

_Luke 14:33_ he must give up all his own possessions!

Anything, Anyplace, Anytime - now that's commitment.

# Its Makeup

Word order of the text: present the body of you a socrifice living, holy,
acceptable to God

Why living? Because there is a difference between a living and dead sacrifice.
(Living is continual?) Look at Abraham! He was a living sacrifice - he was
willing to lay it all on the line.

_1 Cor 15:31_ - "I die daily"
_2 Cor 4_ - we are constantly being delivered over to death

What you are living at each point in life must be consistent!

Acceptable and pleasing. We must be different in our living (not in weird way)

> "which is you spiritual service of worship"

2 words in Greek

spiritual
: "Logikos" 
: means logical or rational or reasonable
: _1 Peter 2:1_ (long for the \_). The most logical thing for a baby to do is
to go to his mother's milk when he is hungry. Our sacrifice is the only thing
that is logical in light of the cross.

worship
: "Latreia"
: This 

If Christ were never to do another thing for us in our life He has done more
than enough for us! That is the point of this passage.

You don't do these things because you are trying to make thnigs right with God.

_Genesis 29:20_ - Jacob' service was but few days because of his love for her.

Polycarp of Smyrna

# Application

1. Plant God's word in your heart!

2. Begin with commitment to meet God regularly

3. Ask God to show you where you are to serve. This passage is a call to give
   your heart to God, but the outcome of that giving is service in action.

> Chad Walsh quote
