% The Ressurection Guilt and Love - Romans 8:31-39
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro 

How often do you fear punishment or rejection? 
That you have let people down or that you will?
That God is angry with you or that He has withdrawn his Love from you?

If you feel this then you probably struggle with guilt.

This is where psychology and theology meet. In the modern secular psychology
they say Christianity doesn't give you a way out of guilt. 

"sin"
: harmatia
: the breaking of God's laws
: creates real guilt.

It comes from others who judge you or how you perceive them seeing you.

Roman Church had Greeks and Jews and both judged each other and even questioned
the salvation of the other.

Paul was directing this letter to each person. 

To often we only think of the ressurection as the proof of our faith;
forgetting that it applies to our lives Monday - Saturday

Man has a God shaped guilt - and that we recognize that God is holy and
relegate this unforgiving God to a corner of our lives.

> We have all blown it and continue to blow it as believers and the only way to
> rid us of this guilt is to recognize that there is nothing that we can do to
> payback our debt and that Christ payed it all for us.


We percieve the way that God feels about us has everything to do with how.

# V31 Remember Christ's Salvation 

"if"
: 1st class conditin

"Because God is with you. Who can stand against you?"

How many times do you struggle that God isn't going to give
me the power to live this Christian life? 

Philipians 1:6

epi - 
: emphasis

talio 
: to bring to completion

"Perfect"
: epitalio 
: to bring completion upon completion

Will God not equip us to live out this Christian life?

2 Peter 1:3

God has given us the gateway to our Christian life! His Spirit will empower us
to live that Christian life.

"rather"
:mailon
: even more so.
: "Christ who died, even more so, who rose from the grave"

Everyone of the disciples died a martyr's death.


All the promises in Romans 8:31 - 37 are hinged on the ressurection, the
ressurection is the recipt and promise note that God will come through.

# Rely On Christ's Intercession

> who also is interceding for us.  

1 John 2:1

"That you may not sin" If anyone does in we have and advocate with the
Father.

Revelation 12:10, Satan accuses us day and night!

We are declared as righteous!

No longer should I live with guilt because God's promise has been nailed
down, He cannot help Himself! He cannot help but love us because of
Christ! We are saved by grace and so nothing we can do

Guilt and love have a direct correlation!

> The world's kind of love is fical! It's shallow and unstable! God's love
> is the deepest, and gives us peace! It's like living in a shark ifested
> water and your only hope is a giant aircraft carrier that you htink will
> never see you but they do and they pull you out of the water and say "We
> will protect you on our deck becase we care for you!"

Not, "I don't love you. I didn't know that things were not going to be
like this, and so I'm done"

God says "No matter what! We are in this together for life!"

It's like a baby who keeps pooping her diaper and stinks. But God keeps
changing us and sticking to us.  

Dallas Willard Quote from _Renovation of the Heart_

The Christian life is not about performing, it is about trusting Christ!
