% Unknown Title  - Romans 12:9
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

John 13:12-20 - we are to be a servant towards others!

Romans 12 Review

Verse | Review
------|--------
vv1-3 | The renewal of your mind is the only logical reaction to what Christ
has done for us.
vv3-5 | Pride leechees us of effectiveness
vv6-8 | These verses follow a call to commitment.

How do do love Christ's bride? 

Who is the bride? The Church is not brick and mortar but the people.
 
You can't love the church without loving the people. You can't be a sold out
servant and not love its people.

#  Unselfish love

v9 
: "agape" is used as a noun 

agape
: self-sacrificing love! It is a mental attitude that says I am commited to
this person.

Rom 5:6
Rom 15:1-3

Christ says to us "Are you committed to me?" We say "Yes". "Then are you
willing to put aside your ambitions and agenda to serve others?"

Spiritual growth is apt to happen in the context of where love flourishes.

"Abhor what is evil" what is the evil here? "evil" is the hypocrisy (based on
the context). This must be an honest love! Not a fake one. 

"Hypocritos" 
: hypocrite
: "to act (in judgement) behind a mask"

"critos"
: this is related to judgement

> "hypocrisy is exceeded in evil only unbelief"
> - John McArthur

Hypocritical love is all wrapped up in selfishness.

There isn't a pastor alive who hasn't done this - there isn't anyone who has
not lead and not fallen in this temptation.

Whenver Byron has something said to him that hurts his propensity is to say:

> "Lord do not let my pride get in the way! Don't let me give in and forego
> allowing you to use me!"

1. Hate selfishness

"cling"
: same as in Gen 2:24

Cling to selflessness. If someone rubs you the wrong way give it up! Love them
inspite of this!

1 Peter 1:22

"One another"
: 2 words alleros heteros. Heteros means "others of different kind"
: alleros

# Kinship Love

Be devoted in a ragingly wild phileo love! (See sermon on phileo)

Most used words to refer to Christians

1. Adelphos
2. Disciples
3. Brothers

here in v9 it's the first usage of Adelphos

There is a very practical loving and sharing within the body.

# Give preference 

Value others to yourself.

Philippians 2:9

# Application
