% Future Chaos - Matthew 24
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

What happens for us as believers: we wrestle with doubt.

Prophecy given 16 centuries before Christ: not until the last 20th century
where this prophecy came about.

The future of Zebulun: utered by Jacob and Moses:

  * Genesis 49:13
  * Deuteronomy 33:18-19
For 3600 hundred years that prophecy did not come about until 1933. A harbor
came about in Israel to host a harbor from Iraq to the seashores.

Names of the tribulation
  * Jacob's day of troubles
  * Day of wrath
  * Day of the Lord (also a ref to the millenium)
  * 70th week of Daniel

# Purpose 1

* to prepare Israel for the Lord's return
* to bring about the conversion of a multitude of Jews
* to experience the fulness of all the covanents (esp. the New Covanent)
* Jeremiah 30:7

Today when you speak if Israel that it appears as a political thing. However,
we are only interested in what God has to say. They are his chose people and
they are a picture of God's grace!

  * Genesis 17:7
  * Genesis 12:3
Through the seed of Abraham came the Messiah. 

There are some who say they are not God's chosen people (replacement theology).
Major problem with this: the literal land promise to Israel

The Church is the temporary sub for Israel. Israel will be the center piece for
Israel. Why is it that this small nation and these people who have been
persecuted and killed and yet they still last.

It will only be the tribulation. Zechariah 13:8-9. Two thirds of the Jewish
people will be killed. The crucible is the tribulation that will bring them
back to God.

Even during our day this is so politically incorrect. How is it that a loving
God could do that to people.

  1. we are finite and cannot comprehend everything about God
  1. God's glory is the theme throughout history

# Purpose 2 

To pour out retribution upon the world; to judge the people of this world.  Do
we not see how we are becoming more and more ungodly. This world is getting
worse and worse.

Revelation 3:10
: the hour of testing (or "hour of tribulation") 
: proof of pre-trib rapture

Jeremiah 25:33
: Jeremiah 35 
: description that will come upon the world

This is known as the 70th week of Daniel.

Daniel 9

Daniel is a man who served in the courts of Babylon.
An angel has come and given an answer to the question that Daniel has asked.

2 princes
: anti-christ
: Christ

# 4 horsemen

Revelation 6 and 6 seals

1. white horse - the anti-christ
1. red horse - wars that are breaking out
1. black horse - famine
1. ashen/pale horse - death, one fourth of the earth will be killed
1. souls of those martyred
1. 6 catastrophic events

  * earthquakes
  * sun will be darked 
  * moon will be bloodened
  * meteors
  * heavens will open so that man will glimpse God on His throne
  * mountains and islands will be removed

Battle of Gog and Magog

Ezekiel 38-39

Revelation 12:7-9 seems to indicate that the uprising of heaven may have caused
this uprising on earth. He goes forth to rage great wrath and attack the
remnants of Israel.

Magog was identified as the land of the Sythians - known today as the land of
Russia. They will march on Israel - Gog.

# Application

1. This proves the fact of Christs' ultimate triumph
1. History has a destiny - that it's not cyclical

This embolden's us and gives us confidence in the word of God.
