% Accountability - Galations 
% Michael Lawrence

# Intro

Context of Galations

Jewish Christians are promoting legalism in a place where the people knew
better.

Galations 2:21
Galations 4:17
Galations 5:13-15
Galations 5:25-26

When someone sins what should we do? The Law says that we condemn them. But
Grace says otherwise.

There is no condition on who can be held accountable

But there is a condition to those who can hold others accountable. This is are
those who are walking by the spirit.

If you can't swim you can't be a life guard.

Accountability is for those who are ensnared - not a one time thing.

This requires a complete healing

It requires a fulltime relationship that endures to healing.

Bearing one another's burdens! 

True accountability when done right brings freedom and liberty!

If liberty leads you deeper into sin then it is not liberty but slavery!

# 2 essential elements of Accountability

## sin has to be taken seriously

If you don't consider the seriousness of the sin then what is the motivation
from gaining freedom.

## you must take grace seriously

If you don't give someone a place to run to then they will not run from the
sin.

The Christian pendulum.

# Guarding from Pride

Pride must necessarily melt away before accountability can begin.

Galations 6:3

# Personal Responsibility

Galations 6:4-5

Each person must take responsibility for his own life. There is no way of
saying "my accountability partner didn't comfront me!"

Bear one another's burden's vs "bear his own"

Accountability is not about transfering responsibility! You are still
responsible for your own sin, they are there to help you walk towards
freedom.

# Take aways

1. Accountability is done in community through meaningful relationships. You
   need someone who has access to the inner roots of your life.
1. It is to promote their liberty in Christ and releve that burden.
1. You are to guard yourself from temptation
1. You are ultimately accountable to God.
1. Accountability is best established before there are issues to be delt with.
   Don't wait until there is a sin issue.

1. Are we open to holding other's accountable and ready to do it in a
   Christlike manner and in a spirit of gentleness
1. Am I willing to be held accountable?
