% A Loud Rapture - 1 Thessalonians 4:13-17
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

Why study prophecy? Because there is a movement today that says prophecy is not
practical.

God is in charge of all the ages to come.

Story of William Pettingale who went on a tour of a steel plant to the scrap
metal field. Large magnet that extracts metal from a piece of old road. 

What caused that metal to leap up into the air? They were of the same nature.
Once we are trusting in Christ we have the eternal nature; one day Christ will
come back and cause us who are of the same nature to leap up into the air with
Him.

The rapture brings us to the Bema seat.

# The Word Rapture

pocessions by robbers
prisoners by army
sheep by wolves
people by God

from Latin Vulgate
"harpazo"

"caught up"
"taken away"
"gathered up"
"snatched away"

# The Rapture Explained

## Context

The belief was that Jesus was coming soon 

Their loved ones were dying and so they were losing hope because they thought
they were going to miss the return of Christ.

## A loud return

3 prepositions infront of the main verb. 

"with"
: 'en'
: in or in connection with

In connection with the shout, the voice of the archangel, and the trumpet of
God then the dead will rise first.

The unsaved world will know that something supernatural is happening but will
not know what is going on. But the saved will know. 
For example, 

  * what Saul was confronted by Christ. 
  * John 2 - during the passion week God spoke to Jesus through a sound but
    those around didn't know what was said.

> "the Lord will bring with Him" 

If not handled carefully then you end up making a weird soul sleep theology

Each person is a tricotomous being: body, soul, spirit. When we're saved we are
made alive together with Christ - our spirit is awakened.

When we die we do not become a ghost - our soul will take on a new body: 2
Corinthians 5:1-5. The HS that is in me is the down payment for the "house"
(body) that I will be given when I am in heaven.

These bodies are like tents - we are going to get a house.

1 Corinthians 15:39,51 - our software is the soul, the hardware is our body.
When our hardware dies our software takes on a new residence. We will still
exist. We will have a new nature.

## Transfiguration

Those who are living during the rapture will be transfigured. And changed.
1 Thessalonians 4:17. For those of us to go into heaven will go into the air but
will recieve a new soul.

## A meeting place

In the air not on the ground

# Proof for a pre-trib rapture

This is a not a major issue.

## Hermenutics

### Eminence

That Christ could come at any time. No event will note the coming. The Church fathers believed 
that Jesus would come at anytime. 

The Hebrews were told to look for signs. However, the resurrection of the dead has no warning.

  * Luke 21:25
  * 1 Thessalonians 5:1,2

### Who Populates the Millenium?

Isaiah 65:20. During the 1000 year reign people will live for a long time.
People will be walking around with a physical body however we have a
non-physical body.

Our Lord's resurrected body is our prototype.

We will come back with Christ to help Him reign because there will be some with
physical bodies.

"Those who servive" the Tribulation alive as a believer then you will be saved
for the millenium.

### When is the wedding

### The Promise of exemption

1 Thessalonians 1:10

"from the coming wrath". This is not talking about hell but used to speak of
God's general wrath of sin and the tribulational wrath. The word is never used
in reference from the lake of fire.

Revelation 3:10

"keep" to preserve or protect.

"from"
: "ek" 
: out of or out from within.

### The Context of the second advent

There is no ref of the second coming and the trib back to back in scripture.

### The Chonology of Revelation

Revelation 4:1 

Double entandre
: a phrase that could be looked at in 2 ways.
: for exmaple "High school dropouts cut in half"

The idea of "come up here" is an image of the rapture.

### The Last Trumpet



# Application

* Don't take this stuff lightly
* Learn it, because it will battle with doubt.

Prophecy being modernly
