% The Risks of the Christian Life - Romans 12:14,20,21,19
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

The Christian life at best is tough!

1 Peter 1:6

1. Adorn the heart of the kingdom

How do I know that I have a sold out heart? A sold out heart is not
accomplished in a vaccuum.

We've moved from a thinking Christianity to a feeling Christianity. 

If you read Romans 12:1 how do you know that you're doing it?

1 John 4:7-8 - we know that we are obedient to God then we will be loving
people. So if you're not loving others then you're not loving God.

Every person that God has called into your world God has called that person to 
be loved by you.

You can't check your work by saying "I feel like it!"

Parenesis 
: string together various moral exhortation which often do not have much
connnection with each other.

# v14

By praying for my enemies. (v14)

Pray optimistically and benficially.

> "Lord thank you that I was the one robbed and not the robber!"
> - Matthew Henry

Leviticus 19:17 

How do you treat yourself when you do wrong?

Do you say "God zap me!"? No! You say "God forgive me! Change my heart, that's
wrong!"

Say the same thing about unbelievers or those who hurt you!

Exodus 23:1-3

# v20

Romans 12:20-21

"Burning coals on his head"

Quote from proverbs.  This is called extending grace to others.

4 interpretations

1. the burning shame. They'll become ashamed because of the good you're showing
   them. (wrong)
1. the burning egyptian. An Egyption custom of conntrition. (wrong)
1. the burning judgement. if they do not respond to you they will heap burning
   judgement on themselves. (closer)
1. the burning gospel. the coals represent one living or embodying the gospel

# v21

# v19

# Application

When you are being judged and criticized by the unbeliever you must remember
that you will one day be at the victory table of Christ.
