% The disposition of a sold-out servant - Romans 12:14-
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

> The whole attitude of climbing everest is horifying the tragedy was a result
> of cultural disfunction rather than poor strategic efforts.

In the Christian world today we have "me-itice" where everything we do has a
"me" attitude.

If you are sold out to Christ: 

* you will be serving Him.
* you will

  * have a heart for God
  * care for your family
  * care for His Church
* Put aside one's pride which makes one think they are above others in the body
  of Christ.
* You will have a love for others in the body of Christ

Paul was using a writing style called Parenesis: a string of moral exhortations
that do not have much connection with each other.

What is a disposition?

disposition
: the tendency of one's spirit
: natural mental and emotional outlook or mood
: a state of mind regarding something; inclination: a disposition

Balcony people 
: say "Come up here with me!"
: give joy when they show up

Basement people
: drag other people
: give joy when the leave

What is the disposition of a sold out servant?

# v15-16 You Empethasize With Others

Literal translation:

> Be rejoicing with those rejoicing. Be weeping with those weeping

"Another"
: allas

"allas"
: another of a same kind

"heteros"
: another of a different kind

1 Corinthians 12:26

When another believer is honored and you are not:

* do you rejoice with them?
* What if they recieved the honor that you thought you should have recieved?
* Can you rejoice with them and even give thanks that you didn't get the promotion and they did?

weeping

* feeling and entering into their pain

John 11:33-35: why did Jesus weep?


Hebrews 10:33

Sympathy 

"sumpathos"
: to feel empathy for another

Empathy in a Biblical sense is becoming a naturalized citizen of another
believer's world.

Hebrews 13:3: "as though in prison with them"

Dominoes - you win by giving away. In God's eyes you win by giving yourself
away.

Many Christians have an ejection seat mentality. If it requires to much of me
I'll say "I'll be praying for you brother" but we do not physically meet their
need.

It's not about selfishness! It's about selflessness.

Romans 12:16 

"be of the same mind" doesn't go deep enough

Literally: 

>The same to one another be thinking"

It is a present particple - meaning a consistent, simultaneous 

> As you are thinking same together, you rejoice with those who are rejoicing
> and you are weeping with those who are weeping.

# v16a It views others as Family

Everyone who trusts Christ is a part of the same family.

When you hear of people getting mugged what do you do if it is:

  * in Atlanta - we avoid ATL
  * in Cobb County - we see where it's on the map and no more
  * in your family - you rush to help

> By the grace of God so go I
> - Dr. Byron Morgan

"don't be haughty", literally:

> not minding high things

1 Peter 5:5

Main verbs: "rejoice" and "weep"

By not being prideful and being humble and seeing others as family, and thus as
I do that I rejoice with others and enter into the heart aches with others.

Galations 6:2

"Do not be wise in your own estimation"

> Do not be wise in your own deceit

# Recogonizes detachment as a problem

When you find someone struggling you detach yourself with someone saying "they
just don't get it!"

If someone goes through one trial and then another trial and then another and
you think something's wrong with them then you have a problem.

You can't navigate through their pain

John 15:2

If you are going through a crisis you will need others to walk with you through
it!

Nehemiah - he wan't a guy with a construction hat and a clipboard, he was a
cupbearer for a king (he test tasted food for the king).

Nehemiah doesn't say "they deserve it", instead in chapter 1 the pronouns used change
and he gives up his stately position and goes and helps.

# Application

1. Is there pride in your life that causes you to rush to judgement?
1. Is there a kind of thinking you are above certain others 
1. Have your feelings been hurt by another that has caused you to judge that
   person?
1. Which of those are justifiable in light of Christ's forgiveness of you?
