% The Art Of Hearing God - _Luke 8_
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

Joshua and the failing battle of Ai.

The major point: Joshua listened to God the second time around and we should be
eager to hear from the word of God today.

Can we hear from God?

Having quality time with God every day. How do I position myself in such a way
that we become candidates that we hear from God.

What can get in the way of hearing from God? 

# Context 

He's been kicked out of the synagogues. 

He's now teaching the masses on the hillsides and rows. 

He wasn't impressed with the crowds. They just wanted to see what's going on.

Because of this we speaks in parables. 

The seed on the path gets walked on and then hardens

> "He who has ears to hear"
This refers to those who have "spiritual hears" that is those who are commited
to Christ. Like those who have the heart capacity to listen to what Jesus has
to say (not necessarily the intelect).

"mystery"
: that which was hidden in the past but is now revealed

What distinguished the two groups (those that will get to recieve the
revelation Christ is about to give).

_Isaiah 6:10_ because of the hardness of their heart God gave them over to it. 

Why would Jesus obscure the message during this time? He's the God of the
Universe!

_Matthew 7:6_

Jesus obscured the meaning to keep those who couldn't care less from turning on
those who would know - he was protecting them?

# Meaning 

_1 Corinthians 2:14_

## The first soil is a reference to unbelievers.

## The second is a reference to believers (though some disagree). 

There are two
other places this parable is noted in the gospels. With those in mind this
seems to be a reference of those who fell into temptation - nominal Christians.

The false prophets were saying "don't change your ways. We have a new
revelation from God that says 'Just keep doing what you're doing and you will
be fine'." This is like high fiving a man who is drowning - the preacher who
says "you are a wonderful person and you're not doing anything wrong".

The third refers to believers who have divided loyalties (they are double
souled). They have a desire on one hand, but a pull to do what the world is
telling them to do. 

_Matthew 6:25_

_Hebrews 4:2-4_

This is talking about the stress of life.

## The fourth is to believers.

"hold fast"
: katecho
: literally "to hold down", to restrain. It talks of something that you don't
want to get away.

The word of God gets away from us by having seasons where we become indifferend
to us.

_John 14:26_ tells us that we can hear from the Word of God. 

Some say "I've lost hope!". But God says "YOU CAN!" 

_1 Corinthians 2:13_

"thoughts and words"
: are in italics in the English because they don't have them in the Greek

God promises to meet with us in our time with Him.
