% The Grace To Let Others Be - Romans 14:
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

Only 3 guards guarding many dangerous inmates - but the guards aren't scared:
lunatics never unite.

Churches today are much the same way - we are constantly splitting.

A major theme in the new testament is that of sin's power to ruin the Church.
Outright sin is not the problem within the Church - but those things that we
disagree with that are not important (which is the lack of grace).

Paul has been alluding to the problem of the lack of grace throughout 12-14.
However, he directly addresses the elephant in the room. 

John 1:14

> God give me balance between grace and truth!

The human body gives a good illustration:

  * truth - the skeleton. It is vital for life
  * grace - the flesh. It is gentle, beautiful.
  
Grace without truth is a human blob. Truth without grace is an ugly skeleton.

> Which are you? A blob, or a skeleton?

2 types of grace:
  
  1. vertical grace
     : between God and us.
  1. horizontal grace
     : our relationship with other believers. 

> If you have limberger cheese on your upper lip the whole world smells bad.

What is the attitude of grace in the believer?

## Context

God has brought together a remarkably diverse and eclectic group of Christians.

Eating meat offered to idols.

"Why doesn't this guy loosen up?"
"How can this guy be a Christian and eat meat offered to idols?"

> In the essentials: unity: in the non-essentials diversity; in all things
> charity.
> - St. Augustine

What is our "meat"? 

  * Alcohol
  * Easter Eggs
  * Christmas
How are we to handle these issues today? GRACE!

We are to see other belivers through the lenses of God's grace

# GRace recognizes different levels of maturity. 

(Romans 14:1): 

Give others room to grow!

You are to continuously accept the weaker brother. Not of the sin, but of the
person. 

# Grace accepts the weaker brother

(Romans 14:2). 

God has Accepted the weeker brother.

There are grace killers and there are grace healers.

"Believe as I believe"

For the legalist it is extrememly uncomfortable.

# Grace Recognizes Christ Lordship of Each Believer

v4

"servants"
: diakomos
: doulos
: therapon voluntary servant
: hyeretes - under rower
: pais - child of servant
: oiketes - house servant

"oiketes" used here in this passage. 

When Christ our Lord and host at the banquet tables of grace sees us judging
another is not pleased.

Romans 8:33

The beliver who is a legalist doesn't trust the Holy Spirit. When we see Christ
is the Lord of other believers we see that it is not up to me to fix others.

__Only God can read hearts.__

"fully convinced"
: pherophoreo
: persuade assure satisy
: same word used in Romans 4:21

All of the 9 commandments are brought over under the headship of Christ. The
sabath is not brought over because we are now under grace and salvation.

"Another regards another day alike" 

"alike" is not in the original. It may have a different meaning not intended by
Paul with this word.

"he regards everday as consecrated to the Lord"

"be fully convinced" - not based on a feeling but on the Word of God.

_But God looks at the heart_

Charles Spurgeon and Joseph Harper were close friends. But at some point broke
fellowship because Spurgeon accused Harper as attending live theatre. What's
interesting is that Spurgeon smokes cigares.

Spurgeon was right to have a conviction

> How do you talk to someone when they are telling you about something they
> enjoy that you are convinced that it is wrong?

Ray stedman story about a night club singer who came to know Christ.

_Romans 14:7-8_

# Grace Recognizes Each belong to God

Romans 14:7-8

# Grace Recognizes No Right to Judge

Romans 14:11-12

# Application

Why we make terrible judges:

  1. we don't have all the facts
  1. unable to read motives
  1. not 100% objective
  1. we all have blind sponds
  1. we don't get the big picture.
  1. we are imperfect and inconistent
therefore we must treat others with grace.
