% How to Encourage 
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

Baby camel has long eyelashes so that they may see their way through sandstorms
and wide feet so they can travel through the deep sands and humps so they can
travel without a drink. But camels were not meant to live in a zoo or
isolation.

People today live in isolation and thus develop inward eyeballs  because they
have nothing left to focus on.

When Christ comes into your life He gives you divine connectors - like legos.
But if you aren't connected with the other believers then you cannot stand the
storms of life. In Romans 15 we see a template for how we can encourage others.

Romans 15:14

> I am convinced that you yourselves are full of goodness

This "convinced" is an external proof. "Goodness" refers to the sanctification
truth of the belivers. When the person is controlled by the Holy Spirit they
produce fruit - one of which is the "goodness" (Galatians 5:22-23). 

# See your fellow believer through God's eyes 

How do you see other belivers? The unbelievers? _Do you see them as hopeless or
through the potential God sees them as_?

How do you sculpt a great lion sculpture? You cut away everything that doesn't
look like a lion. God is the lion of Judah and he desires to cut away
everything that doesn't look like himself.

Romans 15:14b - 15

Paul had to remind the believers of the truths because they had forgotten.
v4-5 

"parakaleo"
: to encourage or admonish
: to beseech or urge 
: to comfort
: to come along side
: to council or mentor

"admonish"
: noutheteo
: to put in one's mind
: to warn or remind to action

"nous"
: mind

"titheni" 
: to puin in place lay, set

We have the same DNA - we are brothers and sisters in Christ

# Do not neglect your family obligation

In a healthy family you tend to look out for one another. If you see a sibling
out of line then you would admonish one another to behave lest the parent
should discipline the child.

2 Thes 3:15

> Yet do not regard him as an enemy but admonish him as a brother

1 Thes 5:14, Psalm 14:15

Let's say you hear a message on no unwholesome talk. And then in parking lot
someone tells a crude joke then you'd say "He man, the pastor was just talking
about not having those jokes".

2 Corithians 7:5-6

Paul is struggling and is severly depressed - even to the point of death. Titus
admonishes him.

When you see a brother or sister not doing what they ought to do or thinking
the way they ought to think then you need to get involved.

Just like a chimp grooms one another - they are social animals. We are not as
social. The only time we see a group grooming is at a wedding. The Bible says
in Ephesians that the Church is the bride of Christ and we should be grooming
each other's hearts.

# Guard your motive

There's always a danger of Christians grooming one another

> "Having been made full of the knowledge, you are continuing to be able to
admonish one another."

Be sure that you are correcting for Biblical reasons

Galatians 6:1

If you are spiritual take care to not be consumed by pride. 

Romans 15:15-16.

"ministering"
: lietourgon
: sacred service

the movitve is to restore that person to glorify God

# Application

1. Do I intend to be an encourager or a complainer?
1. Do I ask God daily to be an encourager
1. Am I careful how I view God's people (the Church)
1. Get involved with people - AVOID BEING A LONE WOLF!
