% Mariage, more than a friend - _John 11:33_
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

Byron loves greek and couldn't get enough and just ate it up!

There are many distinctions on the word love!

A few Greek words 

Storge
: domestic love

Eros
: sensual type of love

Agapge
: highest love, unconditional, sacrificial
: outside of Kone greek agape was hardly used until the septuigant came along

Phileo
: the word we get for "brotherly love?" No.
: 

adelphos
: brother

Christ could have quoted more passages out of the Septuigant rather than the
hebrew OT

# Phileo - Meaning

Marriage is more than just a friendship. 

An emotional connection that goes beyond aquaintance.

It involves an emotional attachment and runs very deep! One of enjoyment and
appreciation.

When we are told to "love our enemy" "agapeo" is always used - which is
possible by the empowerment of the HS. However, this is not possible with
phileo.

# Phileo - Contextual Meaning

_1 Cor 16:22_ - we are to have a deep and emotional attachment for Jesus! do
not leave your first love!

Run to him as one who has a deep attachment for you!

_Heb 12:8_ - God the Father phileo us!

_Rom 12:10_

_1 Sam 18:1_

1. Johnathan become one in spirit with David
2. John loved David just as he loved himself
3. John made a covanent with David
1. Johnathan gave David his princely clothing and weapons

This represented one's security and dignity was to say "I love you more than I
can about my own dignity and security"

_Titus 2:3-4_

Woman _cannot_ walk away from these passages and say "I'm just to have a casual
friendship with her husband"

_Song of Solomon 4:9-12, 5:1_

Why does he keep calling his wife his sister? It is to suggest the phileo that
a person is to have a deep phileo love for their spouse.

Phileo is supposed to be the foundation of the agape love!

_Col 4:7_

# Phileo - Fleshed out

Phileo love with have:

## Common Goals

"sundulos"
: side by side, rolling together

_2 Cor 6:14_

Sit down together and mark down common goals:

* marriage
* children
* finances
* friendships

## Guarded Time Together

This is going to guard against your relationship from growing stale!

## Signifigant Communication

There is one thing to be together and never communicate.

If you don't know what to say:

1. What do you think about?
1. What do you feel about?
1. What do you want to do?
1. What are you greatest concerns now for yourself? What causes fear and anxiety

## Have More intentional Encouragement

_Proverbs 12:18, 17:17_

For children, in order to overcome 1 negative statement you need 12 positive
statements to overcome that which was said.

judgement
: "katakrino"
: judgement on judgement

"kata"
: means down

"krino"
: discren judge.

"parakaleo"
: to call alongside of. compare to "katakrino".

# Application

* Which of these is most needed for your marriage? 
* What do you think your spouse would choose?
