% Taking Care of the Bride - Romans 12:6-8
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

If Byron were to die and left Debbie then he would hope that MVC would wrap our
arms around her and meet her needs.

In the same way Christ left his bride - the Church - here to take care of us.

Why do we talk about spriitual gifts? Because there is pride in the body and
there are some who have faulty attitudes.

Paul is saying that some of you have much to offer and while others are giving
up because some are consumed with pride because of the service they are doing.

Breaks from areas of service and a change of pace are ok! Hebrews 6:10

Matthew 25:14-30. God has given each man talents (about $2 million). The last
servant did nothing with what God has given him. God has given us spiritual
gifts and expect us to use them.

# Spiritual Gifts are Given at Spiritual Birth

"we have gifts", "Grace given", both instances are aorist participles.

Spiritual gifts are connected to the the Holy Spirit are recieved at the point
of salvation.

1 Corinthians 12:11


# Spiritual Gifts are Given to Each Believer

1. you have at least one
1. you may have many
1. you don't have all the gifts
1. your gifting is essential to function in the body of Christ.

All the gifts for MVC to be a healthy body are here today - however, some are 
not using their gifts.

1 Corinthians 12:6 - "effects" = "impacts"

Some have 1000 gallon capacity, some 100, some 50. However, God doesn't feel
more towards the one with the 1000 gallon.  In fact the world may say that the
1000 guy is better and is closer to God! 

# Spiritual Gifts are Given Sovereignly

Man doesn't know why God gave those gifts - however God does! He knows your
personality.

# Spiritual Gifts are to be Used

v6

According to "the faith".

Paul is saying hey listen! Put the pride or fear aside and get on with it! Use
your spiritual gift!

Not one person has been leftout in the distrobution of gifts.

Example of Byron having kids wait while they get the gifts ready

# Application

1. Avoid Pseudo Humility. Do not say "That was really bad"... that's false
   pride.
1. Avoid the lust for the more prominent gifts
1. Avoid the paralysis of the analysis. Just get with it. Do not say "I only
   have this gift so I'm only going to do these ministries". Just get with it!
1. Avoid the pride that comes with spiritual gifts.
