% Templates for Godliness
% Dr. Byron Morgan
% Romans 13:11-14

# Intro

There is a disparity between what we believer (or know what's right) and
actually do.

Paul gives a series of templates in Romans 13:11-14

template
: A pattern or mold
: something to follow
: A way to live your life.

Review of templates

# Pursue, and aim at love 

(vv8-9), if you love your neighbor then you won't go
   to bed with his wife - or look at her with desireous thoughts.

We need to live in such a way that Christ is coming soon!

# Envision the End

2 things that have to do with this passage:

## Time

time
: "kairos"
: time as an era or age

salvation
: "soteria"
: preservation, salvation, safety

3 phases of salvation

1. Justification
1. Sanctification
1. Glorification

## Darkness

Paul is saying you are in the "night" right now which is the moral corruption
that we live in.



Some of the belivers had gone into spiritual hibernation. 

Hebrews 5:11-12

dull
: "mothros"
: slow, sluggish
: literally no-push

Ephesians 5:15-16

DO NOT LOSE THAT DETERMINATION TO KNOW GOD MORE AND WALK WITH HIM!!!

_Should I find a work that allows me to do the above? It seems that it is
something I must come to a conviction of and act on it_

Romans 13:13

The picture is of a Roman soldier who carouses the night away in orgies and
ends in a drunken stupor and his commander is on the way.

James 5:7
1 Corinthians 5:7
1 Thesselonians 5:4

In order to be ready for his return we should be dilligent and dedicated for
his return.

How do we be fully ready?

Matthew 24

2 Peter 3:6-9

# Shutdown The Avenues to Temptation

Romans 13:14

Paul is addressing those who has comptempt on the sexual norms from the word of
God.

Like a fireplace - it's warm and comformting as sex should be in marriage
However out of its fireplace it makes havoc!

3 points of temptation

1. I want to have fun
1. I want to feel good
1. I want to be first

strife and jealousy
: literally "infighting and zeal"

A man acts out from the uniform he wears, here Paul is saying "put on Christ!"

"provision"
: pronoia

Paul is saying "stop giving forethought with these deeds of darkness". 

The Christian life must have discipline!! We need to be diligent about those
avenues.

Don't even think about that avenue of temptation! 

# Application

1. I must encorporate end time thinking in my life
1. I must identify the avenue in which I am most susceptible to fall.
