% Here Comes the Judge Part II
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

How often do we say "that person is in a worse place" when someone dies? Never,
but what does this phrase have to do with the judgement to come. Judgement is
offensive in today's world. 

"There is now no condemnation ontop of condemnation in Christ Jesus"

judgement
: to seperate

> How can a loving God send innocent people to an eternal torment?

Such perception demonstraints the limited perception of scripture and of God.
God's moral integrity is at stake: a loving God is also a righteous God and
cannot have anything to do with sin.

God's essence: S O O OI V J G L +R

God wants to extend his eternal love but he is equally perfect justice and
righteousness and they must be satisfied.  It's like keeping the integrity of a
school.

Love is not letting people get by; to approve evil. (see Habbakuk)

Jesus had more to say about eternal damnation than any of his apostles.

Revelation 19:17-18

The very fact that Satan and his false prophet are in the lake of fire during
the millenial reign proves that annihilation after death is false. When we die
we do not simply dissappear.

# Judgements at Christ's Return

## Judgement of the Living Jews

Matthew 24 - this is the judgement to happen at the end of the millienum.

> He who endures till the end will be saved

This means "if you happen to make it to the end of the tribulation you will be
saved for the millenium".

Matt 24:40-41 does not speak of the rapture. The context is about the
tribulation and the abomination of descolation. Therefore whatever this
references must be after the tribulation.

Context: Herod's temple being thrown down. Herod's temple was yet to be
finished.

In Matthew 16 is the first reference to the church but it isn't in existance at
the time of speaking.

Matthew 24:29 this happens after the tribulation.

"elect is referenced as believers". However the context, because Jesus is
speaking of the Jews. The angels are never mentioned in the rapture in other
places of scripture. Where would the "elect" go in the minds of the disciples.
Are the Jews in the OT refered to as the "elect"? Yes, Isaiah 45:4, Matthew
24:22.

The coming of the Son of Man will be like the days of Noah. This must be a
great metaphor of the rapture. It would be! But it's just not. The context of
the passage:

> "They were eating and drinking" 

"They" refers to those who missed the boat - those who will be judged.

Ezekiel 20:34-37 - the judgement of the living Jews

The Jewish people will not realize the new covanent until the millenium.

## Judgement of the Living Gentiles

Matthew 25:31-40 - Jesus speaks here of the Gentiles. Brothers refers here to
the Jews (not poor people).  Salvation is not about helping Jewish people. Is
there any precident for this type of analogy? 

> "Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me?"

# The Great White Throne

Revelation 20:11, John 5:22, Acts 10:42 - Jesus is the Judge, not the Father.
The once pierced hands will hold the scepter of authority. The once thorn
crowned head will wear the crown of glory.

The white throne speaks of Christ's holiness. There will be no politics, no
judgements of facts or jury - only Christ and his omniscience.

Revelation 20:12

There are 3 deaths:

  * physical
    : sensational death here on earth
  * spiritual
    : the state of every man born
  * second death
    : eternal seperation of man

The unsaved are judged based on what they do; and here it is the degree of
punishment? Matthew 11:20-21 gives evidence towards degrees of freedom.

work
: ergon
: one of: a single performance, of an occupation, or personal achievement

Jesus is going to judge the kind of life that they lived.

# What about the United States?

Understand - we are not mentioned in prophecy. 3 different ways we could stand:

  * we are aligned with Israel?
  * we are simply not here and cease to exist as a nation. 
  * we are not aligned with Israel but with Gog and Magog.


Remember that the Church has not replaced Israel. "I will bless those who bless
thee and curse those who curse thee". Therefore we should be a friend

# Application

What's the application? 

* God is a gracious God. But he takes seriously sin, and He wants us to live a
  Godly, holy and righteous life. He looks at our heart.
