% GOd's greatest hits part 2
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro 

People are driven to find signifigance

When you feel you don't matter

Many people struggle with their signifigance.

We all need the reassurance that we are ok; CHrist loves us.

How do I have value of love in signifigance when there are so many people that
are more gifted than we are - like with the people in Haskell

Sometimes we feel overlooked

WHen it comes - why couldn't I have have been beautiful

WHy did I have to have the parent's that I had? We become prisoners of the
spiritual treadmill but also the emotional treadmill. We have 4 traps

  1. the performance trap (I must be the best)
  1. Approval trap (I must be applauded)
  1. blame trap (the shame trap - I ought to be punished)
  1. Competency trap (I must be a success in something to be something)

Because we are in Christ we should feel a sense of compentency. THe world says
we should find something and be good at it to be something. 

David in Psalm 8 realized that who God is says alot about who we are. 

Apart from God we have no more signifigance than a blob of proto plasm

Before Ephesians was written - David speaks of this value and signifigance long
before we come to Christ.

__God I need freedom. I want to feel nutured and mother loved__

Context: 

gittith
: wine press
: a string instrument shaped like a wine press. 
: Etymology → the guitar 

Probably comes from David's time shepherding sheep. David had plenty of time to
lookup and see the sky and thing of GOd.

_Keys to a successful Christian life_:

  1. Know who God is
  1. Know who you are in Christ.

# Consider God's Greatness

Psalm 8:1-3

"Lord you rock! You blow me away!"

v2-3. God is so great that he can entrust his praise to infants and children
and not be robbed of his glory. Even babes and infants can understand who God
is and how great He is. They can figure out that there is a designer behind the
design.

Matthew 21:14 "children were shouting and praising God!"

God set his Glory above the heavens but also condenscended to the point that
even the samllest of children can look into the heavens and see God.

Romans 1,2,3 says we can look into the heavens and see the stars

The heavens are the works of God's fingers - it was easy for Him.

Isaiah 52:10

"salvation"
: Hb. speaks of deliverance
: God bears his arms and show's his strength

Psalm 139:13-17

"The days that were ordained for me"
: We don't know who the old people are. You may be young but have few days left
but old and have many more days left.

God has vast thoughts about the baby in the mother's womb! We ought to be
pro-life.  This isn't a political issue - it's a moral issue.

#  Who Man is - Recognize your signifigance

"A little less than Elohim"
God made man a little less than God. THIS IS WHY GOD LOVES YOU! BECAUSE HE SEES
WITHIN EVERY PERSON HIS OWN IMAGE! 

Being in the image of God is more than "volition", "intelligence", and
"emotion".

Gensis 1:26-27 God is using the term "let us" is a hint that we are relational.
I am making male and female for relationships. This is saying God is a creator
and He has given us the capacity to create. Part of our image bearing is
creating things. 

Implicit in this statement is that God gave man a great purpose! God has
designed man to bear His image and to have great signifigance.

The majority of Americans today go through life wondering who they are and what
they are supposed to be.

WHy would He go through the purpose of creating us and not give us purpose?!
Man is the greatest expression of God's thoughts. 2 Peter 3:12 the destiny of
man is eternity - fellowship with God forever.

Realize that you are not all that - this is you have no innate value; your
value comes from God. Come clean and admit your sin; confess it. 

Like a 20 dollar bill that has been stepped on and crumpled (the scaring of
sin).

We are a picture frame for God's image. The person in that frame makes the
frame have value.

# Thank God for His Glory

Psalm 8:9

How majestic is your name in all the earth!

"O Lord, our lord"

Why the repetition? 1 of the ten commandments (3) syas something about not
using the name of the LORD. The people went over the top and would never
say the name of the LORD for fear of using it the wrong way. So the would
use Adonai. 

Literally "YHWY our Adonai".  

# Application

1. Do you diminish the image of God in your life? Do you put yourself down? Are
   you critisizing yourself when you come up short?
1. Does the shadow of God's greatness hang over you day by day? Do you see Him
   as loving you deeply and seeing you greatly?
1. Does the Holy Spirit teach you through the works of Christ?
