% When You need Forgiveness
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

How should we respond when conviction comes our way? How should you process
that?

What does it mean that He will not hear us? There's a rock in the gas line.

# Recognized God's Complete Forgiveness

There are 3 words speaking of God's complete forgiveness:

forgiven
: "nesa" 
: to carry or send away 
: a scapegoat

They would put their hands on a goat and confess their sins and then send the
goat into the wilderness never to be seen again.

When you remember a sin that you committed years ago - you feel "I just don't
feel forgiven." God forgets your sin! He doesn't remember it! 

cover
: to forget

impute
: accounting term
: a debt that is charged to an account
: God does not charge unrighteousness to our account

David gives us a picture of a believer who is out of fellowship with God.

We need to maintain a personal relationship with God.

John 13:5-11. The picture that God is giving here is of one's hearts being
washed.

When one enters the priesthood he would take a ceremonial bath - the only time
he needed to take a bath. But whenever he went into the tabernacle he had to
wash his hands - his heart had to be washed over and over. Today we are a
beliver priest. We have the right to go into God's presence but with a clean
heart. 

So how do we get a clean heart?

transgression
: open defiance

Instead of making his bed the son strips the sheets and blankets and dumps them
on the floor. Or taking money out of the offering plate.

sin
: similar to harmartia in Greek
: to miss or fall short the mark

Instead of making his bed he has gotten lost in playing his video games. He
failed to do what he was instructed to do - sins of omission. Or never putting
money in the offering plate.

iniquity
: to distort; make perverse

Instead of making his bed he pulls the quilt over the unmade bed. He doesn't do
what he was commanded to do as he was commanded to do it. You put monopoly
money in the plate.

# Allow Conviction to Do its Job 

Alot of people do not want to respond to conviction. 

David had commited a great sin. David had spent a long time (a year) not
confessing his sin. 

wasted away
: to be spent; consumed.

When I refused to confess my sin I was miserable. When I refused to come clean
with God I became miserable. He may have suffered physically.

acknowledge of sin - to reveal one's self. This is used in context of a man and
woman's intimate relationship in marriage.

"God forgive me of all my sins" and God responds with "Which ones?"

1 John 1:9 

homologeo
: to speak the same as
: agree with

He cleanses us of sins. Notice the last verse: "You forgave the guilt of my
sin". Why say it like this? 

There is a process when it comes to biblical guilt. When we walk through that
process then the guilt will not hang around. When we let guilt hang around it's
as silly as letting a bunch of plumbers hang around for dinner after a job is
done.

Confess is: "God that was sin! I broke your heart. I'm sorry".

v6. "pray" refers to confession. "When you may be found". Pray and confess your
sins before it's to late. Like David we can continue to deflect the Holy
Spirit's conviction in our life.

# Know the Urgency of Repentance

David is alluding to the days of Noah. The people never repented their sin and
so were washed away. 

Don't be stubbon like the mule (v9). It's pride that keeps us humbling
ourselves before the Lord. David was saying "Don't be like I was". Don't let
sin hang around.

# Remember The Blessing of Forgiveness

When you've sinned and the call to repentance comes do it! Then you may enter
into the joy of your salvation. You can do that with the assurance of God's
word!

# Application

* God forgives. 
