% When you can't find happiness
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

In the declaration of independence we have 3 enalienable rights:

  * life
  * liberty
  * pursuit of happiness
But why are so many people unhappy? Because they are not sure what happiness
is. Happiness is not related to your circumstances. Paul talked of joy
when speaking of being in prison.

Joy > Happiness.

2 words for "blessed" of one which is where we get the word "eulogized".

"makrarios"
: enriched, contended, fulfilled
: comes from the Septuigant

People will not find happiness if they do not know what it is and where to find
it.

Psalm 1

It is no mistake that this book is a summary of the Psalms.

This is a "book of Praises" 
"Psalm" comes from the greek which meant of a poem to be sung with a stringed
instrument.

There are over 400 references to the Psalms in the NT. Christ used it often 
in his preaching.

2 kinds of text: 
  
  * prose 
  * poetry

These are poetic. Note with the Psalms the rhymning scheme is not phonetical
but logical which allows it to be translated into any language.

The psalms tend to repeat themselves and restate a point that was already
stated.

# The person who experiences Happiness

## Runs from Sin

Psalm 1:1

"walk"
: to pass buy 
: a casual walk by

"council"
: a firm planned direction

> "Blessed is one who does not entertain the ways of the world or is infected
> by the thinking of the world"

Only on God's terms is it possible to live a blessed and happy life. Note this
text starts with a negative (not positive) point.

"blessed"
: eh-sher
: happy / prosperous 

Don't walk, don't stand, don't sit! An analogy must be that of walking by an
item in the mall window, you tarry a little bit "I won't buy it" but you walk
in to ask questions. Before you know it you're holding it in your hands and the
next thing you know you're buying it; later you feel guilty about what you've
done and realize that it will not bring you any happiness.

Remember Lot from the OT. He pitched his tent towards Sodom. He pitched his
tent towards Sodom and before he knew it he was living in Sodom and lost all he
had when God took it away.

## Delights in the Law / Coaching of the Lord

You can't get rid of junk in your life by mental effort. You must replace those
things in your life by things that are causing you to sin.

On his law he meditates day and night - this implies "always". See Psalm 1:2

"meditate"
: to lowing of a cow
: to say under breath
: to mutter and repeat with thoughts

Think of the child memorizing their verses. They constantly repeat things.

Everyone is delighted in something! A career, their ability, money. Your
delight determines your direction.

_What do you delight in most? What gets your motor running? What do you day
dream about?_ These are those things that you delight in. You are to delight in
the God's word as a lover delights in the person he's in love with.

How can you get excited about passages that speak about things you can and
can't do? "I can't get excited about the dos and dont's".

"Torah"
: when used as a verb it means "to guide, instruct or regulate"
: One who delights in the regulation and instruction of the Lord.

We should understand the dos and dont's of the Bible as God coaching us.

1 Peter 2:2 - Long for the pure spiritual milk! This will make you grow and
live in deliverance.

## Connected to living waters

Psalm 1:3 

This "water" represents the Holy Spirit. By meditating on God's word this means
that one is controlled and filled by the Holy Spirit.

3 characteristics of a tree

  1. it's fortified, stable, rooted, solid and strong
  1. the fruit naturally follows from being planted firmlly
  1. unwithered - they stand the test of time.

# A Wicked person

"driven"
: like how a ship out of control is blown by the wind towards the jagged rocks
of the shore.

There are many believers who live by feelings - this causes them to be like the
above

Psalm 9:7-8 God has established that He will judge those who have turned away
from Christ. At the GWT there will be no show and tell.

# Application

1. What do you delight in most? 
1. What thinking of the world distracts you?
1. How can you improve your personal quiet time?

You are are a deep sea diver and you're diving with a few others. YOu explore
the basement of the ocean.  SOmething happens and the hose to your oxygen tank
is cut in half. What are you going to do? You will swim to a friend and ask for
help. Why because you are not made to breathe underwater. You are not made to
breathe in this world. The word of God is like our oxygen tank.
