% Spiritual Aerodynamics
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Introduction

Why is it that so many Christians trie so hard in the christian life but they
have a hard time doing so? Why do we leave sunday's service on a spritiual
high but are in the pit on Tuesday?

Because we are serious but we try and live the christian life in the flesh.

Imagine a new vehicle comes of of the assembly line: a lambo. But the people to
test it grab a dude from the Amazon jungle to inspect the vehicle. He has no
prior knowledge of what a car is. He thinks its a statue for beauty. He sits in
the seats and thinks its for relaxing. He hits the radio and thinks its for
music.  He hits the horn and thinks its for warning. Then someone puts gas in
the tank; turns it on; and then drives it; showing the real purpose of the car

We try really hard to live the Christian life - but it doesn't work out. That's
because we have a lack of knowledge of how to do it. NOt that we need more
knowledge but we need more HOly Spirit controlling us. It's about a
relationship; we may be saved but we may not have a close relationship with God
(in Christ). 

# Position In Christ

How God views use. 

"justification"
:to be declared righteous.
: Romans 4:5

We are declared righteous - we are pardoned - but we are not perfect; we still
sin.

"accepted"
: charitoo
: to be surrounded or encompassed with grace

The ocean we tred in is God's grace; we never see the shore as we swim.

We can wax eliquently about God's grace and position in Christ and still not
live the Christian life. We need to understand the battle we are going into.
There's another enemy that we don't recognize that lives in us: the old man
(sin nature). We cannot live the Christian life by the flesh. That is they
try really hard! Really really hard! For years even. But eventually they break
and tire and give up. 

Many have an unstoppable time - that lasts years. The energy source that fuels 
them comes from that of zeal from salvation and/or restoration. They assume
that what they are experiencing lasts forever. IF they are not taught to walk in 
the spirit they will run out of steam; the emotional high will subside. Determined
to not subside they will dig in their heels and do their best - but they will get
tired and eventually give up.

Romans 7:18
: The reason so many fail after trying their best is because the flesh cannot
  live the Christian life.

  > "The mind set on the flesh is death. But the mind set on the Spirit is life and peace."
  > - Romans 8:6

How is it they are dead? Because of the "grinding it out" in the flesh.

So how do we depend on the Spirit?

_This is me. I feel as if my period in college and 2 years afterward have been
an emotional high and I ran out a while back. Now I'm left wondering if I love
the Lord really.  I feel as if I have nothing left. I cannot do this on my own.
I need something to empower me because I have ran a race - but the wrong one; a
sprint - and I lost. Can I restart? Can I start running the marathon?_

Romans 8:1 (before we get to activating the power of the Holy Spirit).
"law" here equals "the principle". E.g "the principle of sin and flesh"
"Law" is the Mosaic law. The Mosaic Law could not set us free from the principle
of the sin and flesh. That is "trying harder" could not keep us from sinning
and walking away from God.

Note: you have to come to the place where you understand "This is God's word"
and this is true. You cannot set up a bunch of "dos and dont's" and exepect to
grow closer to God. Grab a hold of truth.

Ephesians 5:15-19

"be filled" 
: speaks of taking a pitcher and filling it up with water.
: filling sails up with wind which results in movement of the vessel
: to be controlled by; possesed.

_How do I know that I am filled with the Spirit? _Is this something that we can
be self concious of?_

Work gloves are useless until a hand is put in and causes them to move. The
Spirit of God can be in you but not be of use to you unless you understand how
to be filled by the Spirit. You have to let him take charge of you.
_So are we supposed to be puppets?_ _What level of self will do we have with
this?_

"excess"
: riotousness or rowdiness - the alcohol controls the person to the point where
they are not themselves!

How does this apply to the spirit? The person who is controlled by the Spirit
his spiritual inhibitions are now gone. Just as those who are controlled by
alcohol lose their self inhibitions (keeping quiet etc.)

Bulletin bluper: "Angels we have heard get high". In a sense you are high on Jesus. 

Not here - this is a command! Not a suggestion nor a proposal. Not something to
consider- but a command. This is encouraging! Why?! Because God will not call
us to do something without giving us the ability to obey Him.

This command is presentence imperative. "You keep on being filled by the Holy
Spirit!" We aren't filled one time - but must be constant thing. We are to be
habitually be filled. 

Just like how a car needs to be refilled. We must also be
refilled.

The Holy Spirit's control in your life will make you a witness to a lost and
dying world.  God's primary method of reaching people are people - not sermons;
those who have been so changed by walking moment by moment of the HS that they
become discontent by "just serviving"!

Our lives are supposed to be a commercial announcement of a coming Kingdom.

Luke 4:18. Our job as believers are supposed to be shock absorbers for others who 
are going through a bumpy life!

# How to live by the Spirit

1. Romans 12:1 - you must yield your life to Him; submit to His authority. God
   doesn't knock on every door of our life; but slowly he knocks on the next door
   inviting us to submit it to him
1. A cleansed life - when there is sin in my life there's a rock in the gas
   line. The way that you deal with that is 1 John 1:9

# Application
