% Principles for Successful Christian Living
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Introduction

What are reasons believers are just "gutting it out" or feel "dupped" in the
Christian life?  They hear about the abundant life but they are not feeling it
- or living it.

What is it about the Christian life that we need to know about the Christian
life?  We need to know:

  * who God is:
  
    * Sovereign
    * Righteous
    * Justice
    * Love
    * Eternal life
    * Omniciannt
    * Omnipotent
    * Omnipresent
    * Unchanging
    * Truthful

    These are held in perfect balace of each other. No attribute can be reified
    to the detriment of the other
  * our identity:

    See the top circle bottom line diagram.

    * we are "in Christ" and therefor accepted
    * how God views you:

      * acccepted
      * justified
      * Christ's friend
      * bought with a price
      * adopted
      * reemed
      * complete
      * free from condemnation

      If we don't know about our position and identity in Christ then we feel
      like I have to do certain things in order to get into a feeling of right
      standing with God - that feeling that "He is pleased with me"
    * Sin can hinder our walk with God. But it _cannot_ hinder our relationship
      with Him. Romans 6:3.

      "Baptizo"
      : associated with dipping a cloth in a vat of dye
      : to re-identify
      : other's see you as that new identity? (different from an internal
        identification - not the same of the gender identity confusion we have
        today).

      > "Do you not konw that all those who identified with Christ Jesus have been
      > identified with Him in his death."
      > - Romans 6:3
    * The sin factory of the old man has closed down. Its power has been broken
      down in our lives

# Recognize the Battle

* "Why can't I make progress?!"
* "Why do I feel like I'm in bondage?!"
* "Why do I feel like I'll never get it?!"

2 Cor 11:3

Paul knew that the same one who decieved Eve in the garden decieves us today

The Christian life is simple! When he can't obliterate us with the sin nature
(as he can't now do as we have been saved) then he says "we don't need God"
which is pride.

The sin of self-sufficiency: The "DIY Christian life"! (especially for men).
Just as we are handy men we are so used to doing it ourselves we forget "You
can do nothing apart from me" and "try harder".

Birds can fly in and out of prisons! Why?! Because they operate on a different
principle.

Before we come to Christ we are prisoners - unlike the birds.

There are many sincere Christians but they continue to fall onto their face
because of this: They crawl right back into the prison. They feel like they
can "try harder".

  > "Lord I know I've been missing my quiet times. So tomorrow I'm going to try
  > harder!"

The Christian tries to live the Christian life. They live by so many rules and
regulations that eventually they get wore out and walk away.

_So how do we treat rules_?

Gal 5:16,25

```
             World
         grows out of
Identity ────────────────> performance

             Legalism

           grows out of
Acceptance ─────────────> Behavior
of God     
            Biblical
          grows out of
Behavior ───────────────> Identity
```

If you do something out of the flesh no matter how good it "doesn't count"

_Your flesh wants to kill you_. 

Romans 8:6 "death"
: means seperation, physically or spiritually


# Walking in the flesh

What happens when we habitually sin? God cannot communicate with us; our
fellowship is broken.

How do I know I'm living in the flesh?

  * If you are burned out from performing with other people
  * If your spiritual battery is drained early
  * If you spend most of your time judging how others are doing
  * If there is nothing happening or has happened that can only be explained by
    the supernatural (note: we are not talking about feelings or sensations).
    Something that says "God is here!" 
The flesh will not let up! It won't help you! When we stumble and fall you say
"I'll try harder". Trying harder isn't the way to find freedom in God. The
flesh loves promises to try harder and do better - it means you are relying on
your flesh to defeat your flesh.

# Application

_How are you being self-sufficient_?
_Lord is there something that I'm trying harder with_?
_Have I been misled (purposely or accidently) over the years_? 

The old nature is like gravity - it is CONSTANTLY pulling us down. There is
only 1 thing that can keep you up: moving very quickly with wings - the
spiritual law of arrow dynamics!
