% Rethinking Love
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

The church is a "messy grace" and marriages should be a messy grace.

It's like a keto diet. They 100% swear off carbohydrates. "Dirty" ketos
are only partial ketos and eat a little carbs. In marriages we want
grace coming back our way - but we have a hard time giving grace back.

This is why devine love (agape) is key.

When you abide in Christ you are empowered by the Holy Spririt. And a dangerous
thing to do is to kick things into automatic pilot. We are grinding out things
in the flesh and we don't know how to be empowered by the Holy Spirit. 

Today we're going to look at 5 greek words for love in a different light and
see how the Holy Spirit helps us.

The other 4 words for love are like flowers in the field of Agape. 

# Epithumia

Matthew 19:5-6

Epithumia
: use in classical greek and NT greek 
: a positive desire (positive)
: lust (negative)
: a proper love within the context of marriage

This passage doesn't only speak of physical union. It is an expression of
something deeper. It is a connection of souls. And also represents Christ
and His church. It is a deep relationship.

# Eros

Song of Solomon 2:8

eros
: romantic love
: sexual love
: proper within marriage
: can be found without epithumia
: can fall into as quick as you fall out of it.

"There's a god who has a hold of us we cannot resist it." Can be intoxicating
but cannot be sustaining.  It is healthy at times but will wax and wane.

# Storge

Luke 9:59-62

stoge
: Not found in NT.
: a care for another member of the family
: a personal responsibility for another out of love

# Phileo

Titus 2:4-5

phileo
: a deep affection for someone else
: close in nature to agape

# Agape

1 Corinthians 13

agape
: divine love
: the highest form of love
: a love that is not out of emotions.
: a love that you do because God tells you to do it.

Emotions may follow this, however our loving behavior doesn't follow the deep
emotions. Agape

1 John 4:19 we are to be a reflection of God's love.
John 15:13 our life is laid down for the other.

Be careful that you are not living your life out of emotions only.

# Characteristics of Agape Love

## Contradicts Individualism 

1 Cor. 13:5

Sacrifice.  It does not seek its own.

One half of our problems comes wanting our own way. The other half comes by
getting it. We want the freedom to do what we want to do - to be individual.

You cannot love by yourself. When you love you immediately give up your self.
They want to spend the same amount of time when the were single on their
hobbies and interests. It's like a house that's constantly needing care and
engery invested into it.

## Destroys Indpendency

You put the other person's needs before yourself. You say "I want your way or
our way". You do not make desicions independent of your spouse.

1 John 3:16

There was a man who did not invest at all in his family his daughter (or wife?)
ended up being a member of Playboy because of this.

Just as in a sport you lay down your personal glory for the team. 

__GIVE UP YOUR INDEPENDENCE IN YOUR MARRIAGE!__

We would rather eat our cake and have it too. We want to get what we want
without it costing us something.

Sacrifice is necessary. Both sides must sacrifice what they want.

## Agape love's sacrifice is different

There is no comprimise in agape love it is 100% sacrifice

It is not "I'll give up this if you give up this". It expects nothing in
return. It doesn't bargain or haggle. It doesn't expect anything of its own
benefit.

Romans 15:1-2

"seek" is in present tense here.

"Well gee, this doesn't seem very fair". Well if both mates are doing this
you'll find that this isn't a problem. Backing up and seeing our relationship
with God we see Him calling us to love the unlovable - those who can't love us 
back. We may feel this isn't fair. But do we really want God to be fair? No! 
The wages of sin is death (Romans 3:23).

## Agape Love Simply Gives

It is mainly concerned about the other person. Isn't there a problem with
always giving?

Giving is hard.  Is it even right to always give? However, giving isn't done
without restriction. It must be done with how God directs.

> "Love doesn't rejoice in unrighteousness but in the truth."

Doesn't mean we let people run over us. It is our job to find out what God's
way is to give and we give that way.

How does this work in a marriage relationship? 

When you would have an intense fellowship agape love says "I must sit down with
her and talk things over. I cannot walk away."

# Application

What if we were to tell you that God's design for marriage is for more Holiness
than happiness in your life. To round out the rough edges in your life.

It's the stress in the home that brings conflict. And the resolution of this conflict
bring spiritual growth.
