% Listening to God
% Dr. Byron Morgan

# Intro

Psalm 19

Have you ever felt God is distant - not hearing you. The heavens are made of
brass.

You have been asking God for years for ______ .

The waiting has caused you to give up; and become quietly resolute. If
it feels like God has disappointed you. But He is distant. You don't 
bring anything to God and stop communicating with Him and fall into
living a "professional" Christian life. 

Does God really speak to us today. Habbakuk was praying "God why do you do
what you do allowing us to suffer?!" and God responded with "Habbakuk, I am
working. You just aren't seeing me in the right way".

How does God speak to us?

## Context

> "For the choir director" (v0)

David is declaring God to be a choir director. He is the one who brings order
to the band.

There are 3 movements:
  
# The glory of God. (v1-6)

"glory"
: kvodh
: weight, heaviness, esteem, honor

"pours forth"
: as in a natural spring
: a fountain

Everytime we look up God speaks to us. _Is this is a general revelation_? Yes.

v3. 

No speech, no language; their voice is not heard.
: Nature speaks with clarity none the less.

God speaks through His universe!

Look around at nature and allow it to cause you to contemplate about the glory
of God. Nothing hidden from its heat.

Remember Matthew 6 - observe the lillies of the field and the sparrows. You are
worth more than they! If God took so much care to put the sun and the moon and 
the stars in a fraction of a millimeter of precision and they don't have a soul
don't you think that you are so much more valuable than they are?!

# The Law of the Lord

"God"
: Yaweh

General revelation of God cannot save a man. This second movement is an
intimate relationship with God. It is special revelation of God's word. 

God's Bible is more rich than a naked woman! It is more rich than money. It is
more rich than all the pleasures of life! This (the BIble) is not just
information! We often get into the word and find more knowledge to impress
people. This God wants to connect through His word. We are to fill our heads
with knowledge but we must connect with God in a very special way.

John 5:37 - 39
: we can know a lot about God but not know him personally.
: Don't think that just knowing the Bible would give you eternal life.
: We often think that more knowledge ≡ spirituality. This is not so.

1 Peter 2:2-3
: "that you may grow"
: If you really have had that connection with God in your heart.

Psalm 27:7,11
: we want to have knowledge of God but look at the context.

"Seek my face"
: David was being called to be desperate to know God! 
: before David could get to the point of knowledge of God he must have "oida"!
It is about a deep relationship of God.

_God is speaking to you but you are not hearing because you aren't seeking His
face!_

> "God I want to personally know you as much as I can until you take me from this earth!"

# God speaks to us through special illumination

Psalm 19:11
: By obeying God there is great reward

1 Cor 2:15
: He who is spiritual discerns all things.

When you walk in the spirit God speaks to you.

How to walk in the spirit? You cannot listen to the warning and disregarding
it.  You must confess your sins and be obedient.

You cannot hear God unless our stud finder is working properly. If your stud
finder doesn't have a working battery (the H.S) then you can't hear God.

God isn't ignoring you - you're just not a candidate for hearing him because
you are not listening and obeying.


