# Christian Growth

_2 Peter 3:14-18 esp v18_

> _But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To
> him be the honor both now and on that eternal day._

# Context

_2 Peter 3:14-17_

1. The Day of our Lord

> _Therefore, dear friends, since you are waiting for these things, 
> strive to be found at peace, without spot or blemish, when you come into his
> presence. And regard the patience of our Lord as salvation,_
 
2. Paul's Writings
 
> _just as also our dear brother Paul wrote to you, according to the wisdom given
> to him, speaking of these things in all his letters. Some things in these
> letters are hard to understand, things the ignorant and unstable twist to
> their own destruction, as they also do to the rest of the scriptures._

3. Warning against being led way from truth

> _Therefore, dear friends, since you have been forewarned, be on your guard that
> you do not get led astray by the error of these unprincipled men and fall from
> your firm grasp on the truth._

4. Command That Prevents Stunted Christians

> _But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To
> him be the honor both now and on that eternal day._

# Word Studies

## Grow

Present Imperative Active (be constantly growing)

auxano: to mature, or grow.

Contrast to falling away from the steadfast relationship you have with Christ.

_2Pe 1:2_

> _May grace and peace be lavished on you as you grow in the rich knowledge of God
> and of Jesus our Lord!_

Comparison between this verse and _v18_ shows that the growth is implied. God
isn't to be known from experience to experience. He's known through the process
of growth.

_2Pe 3:18_ 

> _But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him
> be the honor both now and on that eternal day._

## Grace

_1Pe 3:7_

> _Husbands, in the same way, treat your wives with consideration as the weaker
> partners and show them honor as fellow heirs of the grace of life. In this way
> nothing will hinder your prayers._

_1Pe 5:10_

> _And, after you have suffered for a little while, the God of all grace who
> called you to his eternal glory in Christ will himself restore, confirm,
> strengthen, and establish you._

_1Pe 5:12_

> _Through Silvanus, whom I know to be a faithful brother, I have written to you
> briefly, in order to encourage you and testify that this is the true grace of
> God. Stand fast in it._

_2Pe 3:18_

> _But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To
> him be the honor both now and on that eternal day._

### What Does It Mean by "the Grace"?

1. Charis: a gift freely given, or unmerited favor. Often the word was used to
  describe the emotional response of gratitude upon receiving unmerited favor.

2. It's the Grace of our Lord Jesus Christ - a grace characterised only by Him.

* The best picture of grace is found in _Eph 2:4-10_: 

> _But God, being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved
> us, even though we were dead in offenses, made us alive together with Christ –
> by grace you are saved! – and he raised us up together with him and seated us
> together with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus, to demonstrate in
> the coming ages the surpassing wealth of his grace in kindness toward us in
> Christ Jesus. For by grace you are saved through faith, and this is not from
> yourselves, it is the gift of God; it is not from works, so that no one can
> boast. For we are his creative work, having been created in Christ Jesus for
> good works that God prepared beforehand so we can do them._

* Grace is the characteristic of God in which He displays His goodness despite
  our actions.

> _grace is God's goodness confronting human demerit. (_demerit_ means that there
> is not only no merit there but that there is the opposite of merit.)_

* When God sent Christ to die for your sins, that was grace.
* When God chooses to bless you, that is grace - you didn't deserve it and never
    will (so stop trying!)

* When God chooses to bring harsh reality in your life, that is grace. He is
    trying to mold you into the likeness of Christ.

### What Does It Mean To "Grow In The Grace"?

1. One one hand it means to losen your controlling attitude. The opposite of
    grace is legalism. It's the unessary rules we "holy and devote, pickle
    weaned Christians believe". 

* Chuck Swindoll once said:

> _Legalism is an attitude, a mentality based on pride. It is an obsessive
> conformity to an artificial standard for the purpose of exalting oneself._

2. Learn the diference between what's important, and what's not important. Major
    on the majors, minor on the minors.

3. Grace is not "do what you want" (Rom 6:15)

> _What then? Shall we sin because we are not under law but under grace? May it
> never be!_

Notice in _v14_: "Theses things" are talking about a major doctrine - the return of Christ! -
not whether or not we should listen to only Christian music.

### How Do I "Grow In The Grace?" 

1. Be persistent in your relationship with Christ. Practice it! _v14_ "Be
  diligent!" which is the attitude of the context.

* The command is to keep your nose to the grindstone of your heart so that when
    Christ returns you might be more and more like Him!

* The word "grow" here has the present active tense __Keep on growing__.

* Sometimes growth is 3 steps forward and 2 steps back.

2. Get slammed .... no I don't mean drugs ... I mean crushed.

_Phil 3:10-11_

> _That I may know Him and the power of His resurrection and the fellowship Of
> His sufferings, being conformed to His death; in order that I may attain to the
> resurrection from the dead._

Paul's relationship with Christ involved allowing God to bring suffering into
His life so that God could mature Him.

3. Grow in His Knowledge

## Knowledge

__read v18__

* This is __not__ "experiencing Christ"
* No mountain top experiences here. We're talking day in, day out growing
    knowledge of the facts of who God is, and what He has done.

* Gnosis: (here) simply the intellectual knowledge; general knowledge of Christian
  religion. 

* This means really simply: study the Bible!

### Why Should I grow in Knowledge? 

1. You simply cannot grow as a Christian, which means you cannot become like
   Jesus without first knowing Him and what His Word says.

2. Knowledge is what pulls your emotions and desires in alignment with God's
   will. 

3. Knowing God's Word is the key to a productive Christan walk.

_2Pe 1:5-6_

> _For this very reason, make every effort to add to your faith excellence, to
> excellence, knowledge; to knowledge, self-control; to self-control,
> perseverance; to perseverance, godliness;_

Christian growth is done by learning in your head.

Contast above usage in _v18_ with the usage in: 

_2Pe 1:8_

> _For if these things are really yours and are continually increasing, they
> will keep you from becoming ineffective and unproductive in your pursuit of
> knowing our Lord Jesus Christ more intimately._

Which means "experiencial knowledge".

### How Do I grow in Knowledge? 

1. Stay close to His Word! Fill your mind.

* God often seems distant because we've allowed other things in our life to get
    in the way of our memory. We forget God. The problem isn't God has left us -
    He's omnipotent it's impossible for God to leave! (Isn't that reassuring?!)
    - it's we've put a blind fold over our eyes and are walking without him.


2. Memorize it - this helps remind you of

3. Keep a consistent devotional life. 

_Prov 6:20_

## Final Notes

1. A growing relationship with Christ. 

  * If you don't know Him I encourage you to learn of the freedom that comes by
      accepting His free gift of grace in your life.

  * If you do know Him but are not walking with Him I encourage you to confess
      your sin, call it for what it is, and start today.

2. Balance! Balance! Balance! 

* A Christian with to much grace risks destroying truth - which eventually will
lead others astray. Remember, the very thing Peter is warning about here is
false teachings - things which are not true.

* A Christian with to much truth and not enough grace turns into a pickle. They
    are sour, unpleasant, and rigid. They are like a tree with all root, all
    knowledge, but no fruit.

* John 1:14

> _And the Word became flesh, and dwelt amoung us, and we saw His glory, glory as
> of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth._

Christ, the perfect man was balanced. He was full of grace, and truth (or
knowledge). He knew what was right and how to apply it to His life.

3. Stay in the family! 

* This doesn't just mean regularly attend Church. Simply "being a part of the
    event" doesn't give you much growth. 
* Become active! Get discipled, find an old person and stick with em.
* There hasn't been a time in my life when spending time with Godly people
    who've been around the block a while hasn't benefited me.

_1Pe 2:2_

> _And yearn like newborn infants for pure, spiritual milk, so that by it you may
> grow up to salvation,_


# Other Versions


__NET©__: But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be the honor both now and on that eternal day.

__NIV©__: But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. To him be glory both now and for ever! Amen.

__NASB©__: but grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To Him be the glory, both now and to the day of eternity. Amen.

__ESV©__: But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be the glory both now and to the day of eternity. Amen.

__NLT©__: Rather, you must grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.

__MSG©__: Grow in grace and understanding of our Master and Savior, Jesus Christ. Glory to the Master, now and forever! Yes!

__BBE©__: But be increased in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. May he have glory now and for ever. So be it.

__NKJV©__: but grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To Him be the glory both now and forever. Amen.

__NRSV©__: But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be the glory both now and to the day of eternity. Amen.

__KJV©__: But grow in grace, and [in] the knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. To him [be] glory both now and for ever . Amen.


