---
title: Living Hope - _1 Peter 1:3-5_
author: Noah Harvey
papersize: letter
fontsize: 12pt
geometry: margin=1in
---

# Sermon Notes

## Introduction

Today the one of the biggest fears of young adults today is "Am I going to live
a meaningful life?"

How often do we hear catch phrases such as: "Make an impact" or "engage"? This
type of phrasage is an indicator on the deep desire we all have within us to
know our lives mean something.

Why do we have such a desparate search for meaning today? 

1. What you do
1. Provides Meaning
1. Provides Value from others and/or self
1. Provides Worth of self
1. Provides Acceptance from others and/or self
1. Provides Affirmation of your _Identity_

Since our identity is the one thing our lives are hinged around what does God's
word have to say about who we are?

_1 Peter 1:3-5_

_I'm reading from the NASB_

Go to Revelation and turn left past John.

## Identity

Our __Identity__ comes from Jesus Christ.

_1 Peter 1:3_

> "has caused us to be born again"

KJV translated this from the Greek to be

> "begat us anew"

"begat"
: to cause something to exist
: to procreate, to generate offspring

Each of us are offspring of Adam. 

* Because Adam sinned he took on a sinful nature, that is a nature contrary to God's.
* Adam's children therefore had sinful natures too.
* Therefore we have a sinful nature because our family tree goes all the way back to Adam.

But

because _God is merciful_ and _Jesus died and rose from the dead_ 

We can then be taken off of Adam's family tree and grafted into Jesus's family tree.

This is what it means to be "born again"

Because we are "born again" we now have a new identity! 

You are now a child of the

* infinite
* powerful
* invisible
* creator who is
* loving
* merciful
* just
* and my favorite: gracious 

God!

_Who you are has nothing to do with you past!_

You are now in Christ, a child of God, and that is your identity.

## Living Hope

Now that we've seen _what_ our identity is and where it comes from lets look at
some benefits of this new identity

The first is our motivation for living.

_1 Peter 1:3_

> "living hope"

Draw an arrow from "born again" to "living hope"

The first benefit is we have a "living hope"

What on earth does this mean?

First what is this hope? _1 John 3:3_

This is the Christian's expectation of: 

1. No longer having a broken body
1. No longer having a broken soul (we won't do, say or think anything wrong by God's standard)
1. We'll be given a huge reward!
1. We'll get to see God Himself!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

This isn't a "I hope so" kind of hope - like saying "I hope I graduate" or
"Maybe I'll be able to get a job". 

No this is more of a child watching the presents as they're stacked under the
Christmas tree. He is expecting them to be given to Him.

> "lively hope" 

Means a motivating, life givingness hope! Because we are expecting the benefits
of seeing Jesus face to face we live with a huge energy that's produced in us
by the Holy Spirit!

Have you ever seen someone's face just light up after hearing some good news?
They stand a little taller, they'll start to wistle, they maybe even burst into
song and dance on their way to class!

That's the way a Christian ought to percieve life. 

Now we must be careful. This doesn't mean we have a careless life by burying
our heads in the sand with a happy-go-lucky attitude. 

This just means that we can expect the best from God now because He's promised
the best for us later.

> "A child of God has no right to look on the dark side of things, and to look
> for the worst to happen to him. As the object of God's care and love, he
> has the right to look for the best to come to him and to look on the bright
> side of things"
> - Wuest, Commentary on 1 Peter

We'll still experience rough times - just look at verses 6 - 7. Peter goes
right into how to handle troubling times.

The 1st way of living is to have an energizing motivation because you are. 

## Inheritance and Protection

The second benefit is an inheritance.

Draw an arrow from "born again" to "inheritance"

> "inheritance"

This is a gift that a father gives his children. God is our father, and those
who are saved are his children - we get an inheritance!

So what's the worth of the inheritance? And what does this say about how God
values you?

1. imperishable
1. undefiled
1. will not fade away
1. reserved in heaven

This means that God is giving us a PERFECT inheritance in every sense of the
word.

This means He puts infinite worth in us and feels deeply about us!

> "protected by the power of God through faith"

This means that nothing can cause us to be unqualified for the inheritance.

Not only is God's value in our life PERFECT it is PERMANENT. 

LITERALLY NOTHING CAN make you stop being a child of God. 

We can walk out of fellowship with Him, but it can never change your identity. 

Remember, your identity is not baesd on _what you do_ but in _who Christ is_.

## Application

__TAKE AWAY__: 

Your life's purpose is to glorify God and prepare for meeting Jesus in person
because you are his son or daughter.

### Your life has the deepest possible meaning already! 

Our world says:

1. Meaning
1. Value
1. Worth
1. Acceptance
1. Affirmation of _Identity_

God's Word Says

1. _Identity_ is in Christ
1. Therefore you are Accepted
1. Therefore you are of Infinite Worth
1. Therefore your life has Infinite Value
1. Therefore you have Infinitely deep Meaning

The meaning of your life is to glorify God and prepare for seeing Jesus one day.

### Make Your Eternal Life the Forefront of your mind

_John 14:1-4_

__End with Mansions illustration__

# Study Notes

## Passage Outline

    * Blessed Be
      * God and Father
      * of Our Lord Jesus Christ
    * who
      * according to His great mercy
      * caused us to be born again
        * to a living hope
          * through the resurrection 
            * of Jesus Christ 
            * from the dead
        * to obtain an inheritance
          * imperishable
          * undefiled
          * will not fade away
          * reserved 
            * in heaven
            * for you
    * who 
      * are protected 
        * by power of God
        * through faith
        * for a salvation

## Context

### Who 

Author: Peter (_1 Peter 1:1_)

Recipients: "those who reside as aliens" (_1 Peter 1:1_)

### When

3-4 years prior to Peters death (63-64 A.D, prior to Nero's reign).

### Where

Peter was in Rome when the letter was written

The "aliens" were living in modern Asia minor. They were scattered not by
persecution but because life naturally brought them here.

### Why

To tell of the Grace of God (_1 Peter 5:12_)

### What

#### Living Hope

__What are we hoping in?__

* Salvation from the imperfect physical world (Romans 8:23)
* Salvation from the nature of sin
* The return of Christ

__Why are we hoping?__

* because we have been born again
* because Christ was raised from the dead
* because we have been released from the debt of sin

__Who is hoping?__

Anyone who claims that:

* Jesus is God
* Jesus became man
* Jesus died to pay our ransom
* Jesus rose again from the dead
* The above actions were done freely and are a gift accepted through grace.

#### Claims of Passage

* God is the Father of Jesus
* Jesus died
* Jesus rose again
* We are born again
* we have 2 major blessings: living hope, and an inheritance
* we are going to heaven 
* going to heaven is guaranteed
* we will have a salvation that is going to come "in the last time"

#### Attributes of Inheritance

* imperishable 
* undefiled
* will not fade away
* reserved

#### Attributes of God

* great mercy
* power to cause us to be born again
* rose Jesus from the dead
* creates and given inheritance
* power to protect the believers
* power to save the believer from the power of sin

#### Attributes of the Believer

* made children of God
* given an inheritance
* object of protection
* object of future salvation from the nature, and punishment of sin

## Interpretation

"Blessed be" 
: euligetos
: To heap praises about someone

"great mercy"
: impelled by His nature, which is the definition of mercy...

"caused us to be born again"
: Reclaimed us as children of God
: our identity changed - our lineage came from Adam and now our lineage is that
of Christ.

"living"
: literally "lively". An energy bringing truth.
: the repercussions of that which we are hoping in can be partially applied
now to our lives.

"hope"
: Refers to the hope that we have as believers in light of our new lineage.

## Application

The believer has a different on look on his relationships 

### Regarding God

* When we think of God the Father we should think of God as our Father not just
"God" up in the sky.
* We should percieve Christ, not as someone we're talking about, but someone
we're going to meet someday. We should live our lives expecting him to return
at any moment.

### Perception of Self

* We should see ourselves as children of God.

* When it comes to dealing with sins in our life we must remember to God we are
just that, children. We are still learning, still growing, always progressing.

* The believer's attitude should be of expectance of good things. (use Wuest
quote)

> "A child of God has no right to look on the dark side of things, and to look
> for the worst to happen to him.  as the object of God's care and love , he
> has the right to look for the best to come to him and to look on the bright
> side of things"
> - Wuest, Commentary on 1 Peter

* The hope we have should renew our energy regarding the life ahead of us. It
gives _the_ meaning (purpose) for our lives and out of that purpose we have
great value. (Use stool of self-esteem).
